ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS
Author(s): Zhiguo He and Konstantin Milbradt
Source: Econometrica, Vol. 82, No. 4 (July 2014), pp. 1443-1508
Published by: The Econometric Society
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/24029257
Accessed: 09-03-2020 05:14 UTC


JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.


Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at
https://about.jstor.org/terms




                 The Econometric Society is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access
                 to Econometrica




                                This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                                                 All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                       Econometrica, Vol. 82, No. 4 (July, 2014), 1443-1508


        ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS

                      By Zhiguo He and Konstantin Milbradt1

        This paper studies the interaction between default and liquidity for corporate bonds
     that are traded in an over-the-counter secondary market with search frictions. Bar
     gaining with dealers determines a bond's endogenous liquidity, which depends on both
     the firm fundamental and the time-to-maturity of the bond. Corporate default deci
     sions interact with the endogenous secondary market liquidity via the rollover channel.
     A default-liquidity loop arises: Assuming a relative illiquid secondary bond market in
     default, earlier endogenous default worsens a bond's secondary market liquidity, which
     amplifies equity holders' rollover losses, which in turn leads to earlier endogenous de
     fault. Besides characterizing in closed form the full interdependence between liquidity
     and default for credit spreads, our calibrated model can jointly match empirically ob
     served credit spreads and liquidity measures of bonds across different rating classes.

        Keywords: Positive feedback, liquidity, over-the-counter market, secondary bond
     market, structural models for credit risk, transaction cost for corporate bonds, bid-ask
     spread.



                                      1. INTRODUCTION

The RECENT 2007-2008 financial CRISIS and the ongoing sovereign crisis
have vividly demonstrated the important interaction between default and liq
uidity in financial markets. Liquidity tends to dry up for assets when solvency
becomes a concern, reflected by soaring liquidity premia; in the meantime, de
fault is looming closer in response to worsening liquidity in financial markets.
This paper studies the endogenous interactions between default and liquidity
in the context of corporate bond markets.2


   'For helpful comments, we thank Kerry Back (Rice), Nittai Bergman (MIT), Bruce Carlin
(UCLA), Hui Chen (MIT), Peter Feldhutter (LBS), Richard Green (CMU), Nicolae Garleanu
(UC Berkeley), Barney Hartman-Glaser (Duke), Burton Hollifield (CMU), Gustavo Manso (UC
Berkeley), Holger Mueller (NYU), the editor, three anonymous referees, and seminar par
ticipants of the MIT Sloan lunchtime workshop, NYU lunchtime workshop, Columbia GSB
lunchtime workshop, Chicago Booth Finance lunch, NBER Microstructure meeting, ASU winter
conference, Duke-UNC asset pricing conference, Texas Finance Festival, UNC, Boston Univer
sity, University of Colorado at Boulder, INSEAD, Imperial College London, UCLA Anderson,
WFA 2012, SED 2012, NBER SI Asset Pricing meeting, Gerzensee ESSFM 2012, Northwest
ern Kellogg, Copenhagen Business School, Tilburg University, Erasmus University, University
of Amsterdam, Utah Winter Finance Conference 2013, and London Business School. We are
especially grateful to Rui Cui for excellent research assistance. Zhiguo He acknowledges finan
cial support from the Center for Research in Security Prices at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business.
  2Corporate bond markets, for both financial and nonfinancial firms, make up a large part of the
U.S. financial system. According to flow of funds, the values of corporate bonds reached about
4.7 trillion in the first quarter of 2010, which consists of about one third of total liabilities of U.S.
corporate businesses.


© 2014 The Econometric Society DOI: 10.3982/ECTA11039




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1444 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 It has been well documented that secondary co
are mainly over-the-counter (OTC) markets
uity markets.3 Edwards, Harris, and Piwowa
Bao, Pan, and Wang (2011) documented a stro
liquidity for corporate bonds (measured as tran
matically for bonds with lower rating classes, t
firms closer to default. Indeed, recent research
Feldhiitter, and Lando (2012) and Friewald, Jan
(2012), has shown that liquidity in corporate b
tially during the 2007-2008 crisis, and more so f
than for bonds with investment grade. To deli
we model endogenous liquidity in the secondar
search-based over-the-counter (OTC) market
ersen (2005) (hereafter DGP05). Bond investors,
ity shocks, face holding costs for holding the asset
To trade, they meet intermediary dealers with
and then trade at an endogenous bid-ask spread
dogenous bid-ask spread is given by the dealer's
the valuation wedge between investors who ha
(called L investors) and investors who have n
depends on not only the bond's time-to-matur
to-default. The novelty of the paper stems from
gives rise to an endogenous relation between se
and a bond's default risk as, for example, embo
  The endogenous default decision by equity
losses is the second important ingredient fo
liquidity interaction in the corporate bond m
rowed from Leland and Toft (1996) (hereafter
ously rolls over (or refinances) maturing bonds,
principal back on maturing bonds, and at the sa
the same principal and coupon at market price
teriorate, equity holders will face heavier rollov
newly issued bonds. Equity holders default opt
losses is unprofitable, at which point bond inve
in to recover part of the firm value.


 3 For instance, Edwards, Harris, and Piwowar (2007) st
in corporate bonds and estimated the transaction cost t
Pan, and Wang (2011) found even larger numbers. The f
presumably subject to more asymmetric information prob
importance of search friction in corporate bond markets.
secondary bond market liquidity are Hong and Warga (2
and Schurhoff (2007a, 2007b), Harris and Piwowar (2006), a
manyam (2013).




    This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                     All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                 ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1445

  The secondary market liquidity of defaulted bonds, that is, bonds of firms
that have defaulted, is important in deriving the endogenous bond liquidity
before the firm defaults. Motivated by empirical facts, we make two addi
tional assumptions. First, we assume that bankruptcy leads to a delay in the
payout of any cash due to lengthy court proceedings. Second, we assume that
the secondary market for defaulted bonds, like the secondary market for pre
default bonds, exhibits search frictions and thus illiquidity. We solve for the
post-default bond valuations in closed form.
  With the post-default bond valuations as boundary conditions, in Section 3
we then solve the system of partial differential equations (PDEs) that describes
the bond valuations before the firm defaults.4 With the closed-form solution for
bond valuations in hand, we solve for the equity valuation and the endogenous
default boundary by solving an ordinary differential equation (ODE) in closed
form.
    We focus on the situation where the post-default secondary market is more
illiquid than the pre-default secondary market, an empirical regularity shown
in EHP07 and Jankowitsch, Nagler, and Subrahmanyam (2013). In the context
of our theoretical framework, we provide a simple analytic sufficient condition
for this situation to hold. This sufficient condition essentially requires the (dol
lar) valuation wedge of default-free infinite-maturity bonds to be less than the
valuation wedge of post-default bonds. Under this condition, the endogenous
bid-ask spread is shown to be decreasing in the firm's distance-to-default, a ro
bust empirical pattern documented in EHP07 and Bao, Pan, and Wang (2011).
    Intriguingly, our model features a positive feedback loop between default
and liquidity in the secondary corporate bond market. Imagine an exogenous
negative cash flow shock pushing the firm closer to default. Because defaulted
bonds suffer greater illiquidity, even before default the increasing chance of
facing an illiquid post-default secondary market hurts the L type bond sellers
when bargaining with dealers. This gives rise to two effects. The first is a wedge
effect, that is, the valuation wedge between Η and L investors goes up, result
ing in greater transaction costs and a worsening pre-default secondary mar
ket liquidity. The second is a level effect, that is, the bond holding value goes
down because the looming default leads bond investors to put more weight
on the severe post-default illiquidity. These two forces feed back to the pri
mary market where Η investors, who understand that later they may be hit
by liquidity shocks, are purchasing newly issued bonds. The wider refinancing
gap between the newly issued bond prices and promised principals gives rise
to heavier rollover losses, causing equity holders to default earlier, and so on
and so forth. The outcome of this spiral is a unique fixed-point bankruptcy
threshold at which equity holders default.


   4This arises because bond valuations depend on firm fundamental, the bond's time-to
maturity, and the liquidity state of bond holders.




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1446 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 The result that bid-ask spreads decrease with d
the exogenous assumption that default triggers
illiquid post-default secondary market as exp
wedge. However, we emphasize that the timing
size at default and the valuation wedge of post-de
determined in the model. Because the positive de
uity holders to default earlier at a higher cash flow
higher illiquidity wedge of post-default bonds, stren
In this way, the pre-default illiquidity of the sec
affects the post-default illiquidity of the secondar
 Our model, thanks to endogenous liquidity, is a
the empirical pattern of higher bid-ask spreads
mented in EHP07. We calibrate our model to cor
ent rating classes ranging from AAA to B. Since
for bond values across various ratings is distance
tures desirable parsimony in that we can generat
pattern of illiquidity across credit ratings by ad
default. We choose holding cost parameters to ro
percentage bid-ask spread for bonds with invest
calculate the model implied percentage bid-ask s
ing classes by matching their leverage ratios. The
spreads and liquidity adds additional discipline to
an overall good fit cross-sectionally for both bid-
 Our paper characterizes a full interdependen
fault components in the credit spread for corpor
the widely used reduced-form approach in the e
is common to decompose firms' credit spreads
default-premium components (e.g., Longstaff, M
Brandt, and Kavajecz (2009), and Schwarz (2010
consequences, we propose a novel model-based de
liquidity-driven-default and default-driven-liquid
pure liquidity and default components. Based on
itsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012), we apply this d
the relative contribution of each component to t
ing the 2007-2008 financial crisis. Albeit crude,
understand the impact of liquidity factors upon t
bonds, and our fully solved structural model a
sition are useful in paving the way for more str
studies on this topic.
  Our paper belongs to the literature on the role
ing frictions in structural models of corporate f
Leland (1994), and LT96).5 Ericsson and Renaul

 5The secondary bond market trading friction is related to b
ature on dynamic debt runs such as He and Xiong (2012




    This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                     All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1447

tion between secondary liquidity and the bankruptcy-renegotiation in a LT96
framework, and Duffie and Lando (2001) studied credit risk when bond in
vestors only have incomplete information. He and Xiong (2012a) took the
simplified secondary market friction in Amihud and Mendelson (1986) so
that bond investors hit by liquidity shocks are forced to sell their holdings
immediately at a constant proportional transaction cost. Because the bond
market liquidity was modeled in an exogenous way, He and Xiong (2012a)
could not generate movement in the bid-ask spread in line with default risk.
In contrast, our paper endogenizes the secondary market liquidity by micro
founding the bond trading in a search-based secondary market, and derives
equilibrium liquidity jointly with equilibrium asset prices. Our paper is also
related to the literature of debt maturity structure (Diamond (1993), Leland
(1998), etc.). As illustrated in Section 5.1, the use of short-term debt with a
higher rollover frequency features a trade-off between better liquidity provi
sion and earlier inefficient default. Regarding the liquidity provision of short
term debt, bond investors hit by liquidity shocks can either sell to dealers
or sit out shocks by waiting to receive the face value when the bond ma
tures. Shorter maturity improves upon the waiting option, resulting in a lower
rent extracted by dealers and thus greater secondary market liquidity. On
the other hand, equity holders are absorbing rollover gains/losses ex post.
As illustrated in LT96 and shown in He and Xiong (2012a) and Diamond
and He (2013), shorter-term debt with a higher rollover frequency leads to
heavier rollover losses in bad times and thus an inefficiently earlier default.
This trade-off allows us to endogenize the firm's initial choice of debt ma
turity, and unlike traditional capital structure models, an optimal finite ma
turity structure can arise. We borrow from the search-based asset-pricing lit
erature as represented by DGP05, Duffie, Gärleanu, and Pedersen (2007),
Weill (2007), Lagos and Rocheteau (2007), Lagos and Rocheteau (2009),
Biais and Weill (2009), Feldhütter (2012), among others. To our knowledge,
this literature with a concentration on OTC markets has thus far focused on
the determinants of contact intensities and behavior of intermediaries, while
eschewing time-varying asset fundamentals; for instance, Feldhütter (2012)
studied the liquidity of corporate bonds but modeled default as an exogenous
Poisson event.6 We make three contributions to this literature. First, we in
corporate the firm's distance-to-default (and the bond's time-to-maturity) in

Suarez, Schroth, and Taylor (2014), which emphasizes the coordination among bondholders
whose debt contracts mature at different times.
   6Endogenous default with stochastic fundamental is one key building block for our paper. Be
cause corporate bond payoffs are highly nonlinear in firm fundamentals, our closed-form solution
with stochastic fundamentals is nontrivial. However, the existing literature often assumes infinite
maturity and constant asset payoffs. For instance, focusing on a very different market, Vayanos
and Weill (2008) used a search framework to explain the difference between off-the-run and on
the-run treasury yields. As far as we know, the only paper with deterministic time dynamics in
a search framework is the contemporaneous Afonso and Lagos (2011), which introduced deter
ministic time dynamics via an end-of-day trading close in the federal funds market.




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
  1448 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


  deriving the asset (bond) valuations by modeling
  the corporate bond market. Second, our paper li
  ity to a firm's endogenous default. A firm's def
  wide liquidity event that endogenizes the exogeno
  Feldhiitter (2012). Finally, our paper demonstrat
  nel, search-based secondary market liquidity can
 firms' behavior on the real side.
     Another possibility to micro-found secondary market liquidity would be
 to assume that dealers face adverse selection problems with regard to the
 bankruptcy recovery value; well-known models of this strand of literature in
 clude Kyle (1985), Glosten and Milgrom (1985), Back and Baruch (2004), and
 Back and Crotty (2013). We take the search-based approach because the OTC
 market structure fits the secondary market for corporate bonds well. Besides
 the advantage of being able to be integrated seamlessly into the dynamic firm
 setting in LT96, the search-based framework is desirable especially considering
 the fact that equity markets have much higher liquidity while being subject to
 more severe asymmetric information problems, and the fact that transaction
 costs are decreasing with trade size (e.g., EHP07).7
   We lay out the model in Section 2. Section 3 solves the model in closed form,
 and illustrates the positive default-liquidity spiral. We calibrate our model to
 match the cross-sectional pattern of bid-ask spread and credit spreads in Sec
 tion 4. Section 5 provides discussion and Section 6 concludes. All proofs are
 in the Appendix. The online appendix provides programs and data used in the
 calibration (He and Milbradt (2014)).

                                                          2. THE MODEL

   We describe in turn the economic environment of the firm, the firm's debt
 structure, the secondary bond market, the endogenous default of equity hol
 ers, and its impact on the secondary bond market.


                         2.1. Firm Cash Flows and Stationary Debt Structure

  We consider a continuous-time model in which a firm has assets-in-place that
generate (after-tax) cash flows at a rate of 8, > 0, where {δ,: 0 < t < oo} follows
a geometric Brownian motion under the risk-neutral probability measure:


 (1) ~τ~ = ßdt + adZt,
                   δ.


    'From the modeling technique side, we do not pursue the path of asymmetric information
due to the difficulties inherent in tracking persistent private information. For recent progress in
adverse selection in search markets, see Lauermann and Wolinsky (2011) and Guerrieri, Shimer,
and Wright (2010) (in directed search, rather than random as we assumed here).




               This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                                All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1449


where μ is the constant growth rate of cash flow rate, σ is the constant
set volatility, and {Z(, J7,:0 < t < 00} is a standard Brownian motion
complete probability space (Ω,Τ,Τ), representing random shocks to the f
fundamental. We assume the risk-free rate r to be constant in this econo
  We follow LT96 in assuming that the firm maintains a stationary debt
ture, which gives us a convenient dynamic setting to analyze the intera
between liquidity and default. At each moment in time, the firm has a co
uum of bonds outstanding with an aggregate principal of ρ and an aggre
coupon payment of c, where ρ and c are constants that we take as exogen
given. We normalize the measure of bonds to 1, so that each bond has a
cipal face value of ρ and a coupon flow of c. All bonds have an initial mat
Τ but differ in their current time-to-maturity τ € [0, Τ]. Expirations of
are uniformly spread out across time;8 that is, during a time interval (t, t
a fraction j dt of the bonds matures and needs to be rolled over (refinan
Thus, 1/Γ is the firm's rollover frequency on its debt, and Τ/2 is the av
age maturity of the firm's outstanding bonds. As in LT96, we assume tha
firm commits to a stationary debt structure, denoted (c, ρ, Τ), in the f
ing sense: when a bond matures, the firm will replace it by issuing a new
with identical (initial) maturity T, principal value p, and coupon rate c, in
primary market.


             2.2. Secondary Bond Market and Search-Based Liquidity

 In this section, we describe the structure of the search-based secondary
ket for corporate bonds. All bond transactions are intermediated by dea
who form a competitive inter-dealer market. Throughout, following DG
we simply assume that each investor can hold either 0 or 1 unit of the b
while dealers cannot hold any inventory and are thus pure pass-through i
mediaries.9


2.2.1. Idiosyncratic Liquidity Shocks

  As in DGP05, bond investors are subject to idiosyncratic independent a
identically distributed (i.i.d.) liquidity shocks with intensity ξ. Once hit
shock, an investor needs to search for dealers to trade with. We model th
den need for liquidity as an asset holding cost of χ = χρρ + ycc, where th
itive coefficient χρ (χα) is the holding cost per unit of principal ρ (coup


  8This assumption of staggered debt maturity structure is made for tractability reasons. R
empirical findings Choi, Hackbarth, and Zechner (2012) show that firms do spread out thei
maturities in practice.
   'Allowing for non-intermediated bilateral sales raises the issue that an agent waiting
sideline meets a probabilistic cross-section of maturities. This results in an integral in the
of PDEs that we cannot solve. It is unclear how such bilateral sales would expand the ec
mechanism of our model.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1450 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 It is a priori unclear whether the holding cost af
 proportional to coupon or principal,10 and this m
 bility in calibration for bonds with different rating
 status lasts either until the agent sells the bond, or
 either event, the investor exits the market forever.1
   We call the non-liquidity-shocked investors H-
 the liquidity-shocked investors L- (low) type inv
 ity shock is uninsurable and thus results in an i
 dependent valuations, as explained below.

 2.2.2. Dealers and Competitive Dealer Market

  We model the illiquid secondary debt market b
 L investor who wants to sell his debt-holdings ha
 with intensity λ to meet a dealer. Similarly, an
 has to wait an exponential time with intensity λ
 vestors meet a dealer, bargaining occurs over th
 We follow Duffle, Gärleanu, and Pedersen (2007)
 weights β of the investor and 1 - β of the dea
pairs.
   Suppose that a contact between a type-L investor and a dealer occurs. As
in DGP05, the dealer faces a frictionless competitive inter-dealer market with
a continuum of other dealers. In other words, a dealer in contact with an L
investor can instantaneously sell a bond at a price Μ to another dealer who
is in contact with an Η investor. If he does so, the bond travels from the L
investor to the Η investor via the help of the two dealers who are connected in
the inter-dealer market. Denote by Β the bid price at which the L-type is selling
his bond, by A the ask price at which the H-type is purchasing this bond, and
by Μ the inter-dealer market price.
   Throughout, we impose the following assumption regarding the relative ag
gregate buy/sell flows coming to the inter-dealer market.

   ASSUMPTION 1: The flow of L-type sellers in contact with dealers is smaller
than the flow of Η-type buyers in contact with dealers.


    10Modeling the consequence of liquidity shocks as a positive holding cost is common in the
literature; for example, in DGP05, the holding cost is proportional to the constant dividend
(coupon) of a perpetual asset. Empirically, EHP07, Table V, shows that, controlling for credit
ratings, bid-ask spread is increasing in the coupon rate, suggesting that holding cost is increasing
in coupon rate as well. Modeling liquidity shocks as a positive holding cost allows for better an
alytical properties, which greatly simplify the proof of Proposition 4. As an alternative, in the
working paper version (He and Milbradt (2013)), we modeled liquidity shocks by a rise of dis
count rate r above the risk-free rate r. The qualitative results are the same; in fact, Appendix A.4
shows that, when liquidity shocks are modeled as a surge of impatience, the implied effective
holding cost increases in both coupon and principal.
   11 This simplifying assumption is relaxed in Appendix A.5.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
            ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1451

  Assumption 1 amounts to assuming that the secondary market is a seller's
market, that is, all the trading surplus goes to the seller-dealer pairs. In Ap
pendix A.5, we analyze the agent masses along the equilibrium path by micro
founding the search environment, and provide a sufficient condition of initial
investor mass for Assumption 1 to hold. In Appendix A.7, we relax the seller's
market assumption for the post-default market.

2.2.3. Equilibrium Bid-Ask Prices
  Denote the value function of an Η (L) investor without bond holdings by
D°h (D°l). As L investors exit the market after selling, D°L = 0 by assumption.
The surplus generated from an Η investor buying from a dealer who acquires
the bond for a price Μ on the competitive inter-dealer market is

(2) ΠH = (pH — D°h) — Μ.
Because in equilibrium some dealer-//-type pairs have to be rationed without
purchase due to an abundance of buyers under Assumption 1 and the assumed
zero-inventory restriction on the dealers, as shown in DGP05, Bertrand com
petition in the inter-dealer market drives the surplus ΠΗ to zero.12 The zero
surplus ΠH = 0 also implies that D°H = 0, as there are no other benefits accru
ing to an Η investor without holdings besides some possible claim to a propor
tion of surplus Π η at the next time of trade. Plugging D°H = 0 into equation
(2), we have the inter-dealer market price Μ = DH, which in turn implies

        A = M + (1 — β)ΠΗ = Dh.

Although Η investors have some positive bargaining power, the excess de
mand from //-dealer pairs in a competitive inter-dealer market (Assump
tion 1) erodes any surplus this bargaining power could extract.
  On the sell side, the bargaining within a dealer-L-type pair determines the
bid price B. As a dealer can instantaneously sell at Μ — DH through the inter
dealer market, the surplus from trade is (assuming DH - DL > 0, which is ver
ified later in Proposition 4)

         n = IJL = M + [D°L-DL\ = DH-DL> 0.
The bid price Β at which L investors sell to the dealer thus implements the
following surplus splits:

(3) Β(8,τ)= DDAr) + β ■ Π (δ, τ) .
                     L-type's outside option Appropriated surplus



  12Suppose this were not the case and ΠΗ > 0; then Μ <{DH - D°H), and a dealer-
could offer a slightly higher price M' > 0 such that 0 < Π'Η < ΠΗ on the inter-de
This would result in a sure trade and thus a sure positive profit. But this cannot oc
oversupply of buyers.




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1452 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 As sellers are the only investors able to extrac
 seller's market applies. We summarize our findi

  Lemma 1: Fix valuations DH > DL, a condition v
 Under Assumption 1, the ask price A and inter
 to Dh, and the bid price is given by Β — ßDH
 spread is A — Β = (1 — ß)(DH — DL) = (1 — β

  We prove in Proposition 4 that Π = DH — D
 trade occurs whenever an L investor meets
 gives the endogenous dollar bid-ask spread for
 tent with the empirical literature, later we als
 ask spread defined as the dollar spread divided
 prices (bid price Β and ask price A).


                2.3. Primary Bond Market, Debt Rollover

  The firm replaces maturing bonds with newl
 value in the so-called primary market, where th
 who can place the new debt to bond investors. W
 tional issuance cost κ € [0,1], which plays only
 results emphasized in this paper.13 Per unit of
 ceives the net proceeds of (1 — k)Dh(8, Τ), w
 market bond valuation given cash flow 8 and t
 simplicity, we assumed that H-type investors
 market.
    The firm's refinancing/rollover activity leads to
 are absorbed by equity holders along with cash
 Following LT96, we assume that any gain will b
 uity holders and any loss will be funded by issu
 price. Thus, over the time interval (i, t + dt), th
 holders (omitting dt) is given by


  (4) NC, = δ, -(1 - 7t)c + ^[(1 - k)D
                      CF        Coupon                v
                                                       Rollover



  The first term is the firm's operating cash flow, and the second term is the
after-tax coupon payment with π being the marginal tax benefit of corporate


   13Once we move away from the LT96 stationary debt structure assumption, a strictly positive
issuance cost becomes important in making the model robust against "infinite rollover" pertur
bations. Essentially, with κ > 0, we can rule out a strategy in which Τ -> 0 and the firm always
manages to avoid default by judiciously reducing leverage in response to a sequence of negative
shocks.




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
              ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1453


debt.14 The third term captures the firm's rollover gains/losses by issuing new
bonds to replace maturing bonds, and can be understood as repricing the bonds
at a rate of 1 /T. The maturing j dt fraction of bonds requires a principal pay
ment of ρ each, while the newly issued bonds in the primary market raise pro
ceeds of (1 - k)Dh(8,, T) each. When the newly issued bond price DH(8t, T)
drops so that (1 - k)Dh{8,, T) < p, equity holders have to absorb negative
cash-flow stemming from rollover. Thus, the rollover frequency 1/T (or the
inverse of debt maturity) affects the extent of rollover losses/gains.
   When the firm issues additional equity to fund these rollover losses, the eq
uity issuance dilutes the value of existing shares.15 Equity holders are willing to
buy more shares and bail out the maturing debt holders as long as the equity
value is still positive (i.e., the option value of keeping the firm alive justifies ab
sorbing the rollover losses). When equity holders, protected by limited liability,
declare default at an endogenous threshold 8b, equity value drops to zero. In
default, creditors can only recover a fraction of the firm's unlevered value from
liquidation,16 and for simplicity we assume equal seniority of all creditors.


   2.4. Post-Default Secondary Market and Type-Dependent Recovery Factors

  So far, the model followed the standard assumptions in the Leland-type
structural corporate bond pricing literature. However, as we introduced liq
uidity shocks and holding costs, our bankruptcy treatment has to be more
nuanced—if bankruptcy leads investors to receive the same bankruptcy pro
ceeds in exchange for the bond regardless of type, L investors may view de
fault as a beneficial outcome.17 This "liquidity by default" runs counter to the
fact that, in practice, bankruptcy leads to a more illiquid secondary market,
the freezing of assets within the company, and a delay in the payout of any
cash depending on court proceedings. The Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in
September 2008 is a good example of such a delayed payout; after much legal


  14For each dollar received by bond investors, the government is subsidizing π dollars, so that
equity holders only have to pay 1 — π dollars. The tax advantage of debt π affects the equity
holders' endogenous default decision.
  15 A simple example works as follows. Suppose a firm has 1 billion shares of equity outstanding,
and each share is initially valued at $10. The firm has $10 billion of debt maturing now, but the
firm's new bonds with the same face value can only be sold for $9 billion. To cover the shortfall, the
firm needs to issue more equity. As the proceeds from the share offering accrue to the maturing
debt holders, the new shares dilute the existing shares and thus reduce the market value of each
share. If the firm only needs to roll over its debt once, then the firm needs to issue 1 /9 billion
shares and each share is valued at $9. The $1 price drop reflects the rollover loss borne by each
share.
   16The bankruptcy cost is standard in the trade-off literature, and can be interpreted in different
ways, such as loss of customers or legal fees. Interestingly, as we will introduce inefficient delay
in court rulings shortly, our analysis goes through even if there is no bankruptcy cost.
   17This would be the case, for example, for a Credit Default Swap (CDS) contract written on
the firm which features immediate payouts at the time of a bankruptcy/credit event.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1454 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 uncertainty, payouts to the debt holders only s
 three and a half years.
  Motivated by these observations, we model th
 ket for defaulted bonds based on two key assu
 due to court proceedings; second, illiquidity fric
 akin to the ones in the pre-default market.18 We i
 liquidity event that shocks the secondary mark
 from the pre- to the post-default market (e.g
 at the bankruptcy settlement date; holding co
 bonds; etc.). Although we exogenously link thi
 default, the timing of default is endogenously
 discussed later, this gives us a forward link fro
 which contrasts with Feldhiitter (2012), who s
 liquidity event.
   Let us use "b" to indicate the post-bankruptcy
 layed emergence payout, we assume that a r
 unlevered firm value ~ occurs at an exponentia
 technical convenience, we assume that cash flo
 the legal delay.19 Post-default, Η investors will
 intensity fb, the meeting intensity between inv
 post-default bargaining power of investors is ß
 market, there is no coupon and all bonds have t
 turity 1/0. Consistent with our pre-default ho
 sume that L investors incur a holding cost of
 ultimate recovery payout, and the post-default
 be significantly higher than pre-default cost pa
 eters characterizing the post-default secondary
 8b is endogenously determined by equity holder
 though it is assumed fixed in the post-default
dealers.


  18For evidence on inefficient delay of bankruptcy resolution, see Gilson, John, and Lang (1990)
and Ivashina, Smith, and Iverson (2013). For evidence on illiquid secondary market for defaulted
bonds, see Jankowitsch, Nagler, and Subrahmanyam (2013).
  "The cash flow rate δ restarts at 8b once the firm emerges out of bankruptcy to obtain an
unlevered firm value of at time of emergence. This assumption, which can be justified by
the interpretation that the asset growth requires normal operation, is for ease of exposition only.
Because in our model agents are risk neutral, introducing shocks to Sb during bankruptcy per se
is irrelevant for valuation purposes, as long as the ultimate recovery value is still below the
promised payments to debt holders. Even if may exceed the promised payments and thus
debt holders may not get the entire payout, deriving the post-default debt valuations amounts to
solving a standard linear ODE, and analytical results are available upon request.
   20In practice, defaulted bonds that require specialized renegotiation skills typically involve
greater risk in their recovery payoffs. A higher liquidity holding cost parameter \b is a parsi
monious way to capture this effect in our risk-neutral setting.




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                  ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1455


  Denote the post-default bond valuations by DbH and D'j. Based on the selle
market environment implied by Assumption 1, an argument similar to Pr
sition 1 gives the following system of equations that determines the valuati



              rDbH = 0 + fb(DbL - DbH) + e(a-A- - D»^,

                           λbßb{D»H
             rD\ = -Xb-^~ +r    μ
                                    - D»l)
                                        \
                                           + θ(α-^~
                                                 r
                                                    - DbL).
                                                        μ                             /

    Solving                                       the                     system,                  w


       Lemma                                         2:             The                       post-d
                                                            -1

              D =
                       f + fb + θ              -ξ»                   θα
                                        r + λί,/3/, + θ           Θα-Xh         r-μ




 where a = (aH,aL)T with aH > aL are type-dependent effec
covery factors.


    To summarize, the post-default secondary market is
 search market with H- and L-type investors and fixed par
 βb, θ, 8b). Because the last parameter 8b is an endogenous
 in the pre-default market, it gives rise to an endogenous f
 to post-default market liquidity, a topic that we discuss
tion 3.4.
    The valuation wedge (aH - arepresents the dollar
 defaulted bonds. Throughout the paper, we focus on the
 illiquidity of the post-default secondary market is suffici
 cise condition, see Proposition 4). This assumption, which
 empirical findings in Jankowitsch, Nagler, and Subrahman
 us to conform our model to the regular empirical patter
 to default have higher bid-ask spreads (e.g., EHP07 and B
(2011)).
   Because our paper mainly focuses on corporate bond pricing and its sec
ondary market illiquidity before the firm defaults, the main purpose of Propo
sition 2 is to introduce type-dependent effective bankruptcy recovery factors
a = (aH,aL)T; that is, at default the Η investors' bond valuation is


   21Jankowitsch, Nagler, and Subrahmanyam (2013) found that trading volume rises after de
fault, but the transaction cost rises to about 280 bps. We interpret rising trading volumes as a
symptom of liquidity events where default triggers involuntary fire-sales of bond holdings.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1456 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


while the L investors'
               Υ μ.
                       one is aL-^~, with a
ery factors, by serving as boundary conditions for bond valuations in the pre
default market, are a sufficient statistic of the outcome of the post-bankruptcy
market. As a result, one may treat the type-dependent recovery factors a
as an equilibrium outcome of other more sophisticated post-default trading
schemes. In other words, any post-default modeling that delivers the same a
will be observationally equivalent in its pre-default predictions that Section 3
focuses on. Moreover, this observation also has important implications for our
calibration in Section 4: from standard post-default bond trading data (prices,
transaction costs, etc.), we can only identify aH and aL—which is our task in
Section 4.1.3—but cannot pin down the underlying parameters without further
assumptions. We present a richer post-default model without the seller's market
assumption in Appendix A.7.


                               2.5. Summary of Setup

  The model setup is summarized in the schematic representation given in Fig
ure 1. For exposition purposes, we omit including the bankruptcy event which
occurs when 8 reaches the endogenous default threshold 8b.

  Primary Market: Let us start with the firm. It (re)issues bonds at a price
of Dh on the primary market to Η investors, as represented via the "Reis
sue" arrow. After the Η investors buy the bond, it may mature before either
the bankruptcy occurs or a liquidity shock hits. This event is summarized in
the "Maturity" arrow, where the firm retires this bond by paying the principal
to the investor. This subpart of the graph represents the LT96 model. With

                         Primary market




                                                   Secondary market



                    Figure 1.—Schematic representation of model.




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
              ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1457

liquidity shocks, an Η investor transitions to an L investor with intensity ξ
who values the bond at DL, as represented by the "Liq. shock" arrow. Absent
bankruptcy and retrading opportunities, the L investor will be paid back the
principal when the bond matures (the "Maturity" arrow again). l/T indicates
the flow of bonds that mature.


  Secondary Market: Once we introduce the secondary market, L in
vestors can sell their holdings to Η investors via the help of dealers. To do so,
they contact dealers with an intensity λ, as indicated by the "Intermediation"
arrow. They sell their bond to the dealer at the bid price B — DL + β (DH — DL).
The dealer turns around and immediately (re)sells the bond on the inter-dealer
market for a price Μ = DH, to a dealer who in turn then sells the bond at the
ask price A = DH to an Η investor, as indicated by the "Resale" arrow.22


                                3. MODEL SOLUTIONS

                      3.1. Debt Valuations and Credit Spread
  We first derive bond valuations by taking the firm's default boundary 8b as
given. Recall that DH(8, r) and Dl(8,t) are the bond value with time-to
maturity τ < Τ, an annual coupon payment of c, and a principal value of p,
to Η and L investors, respectively. We have the following system of PDEs
for the values of DH and DL, where we omit the two-dimensional argument
(8, τ) e (8b, oo) χ (0, T) for both functions:

                                                 σ2 δ2

(5) rDH = c — dTD}j + μ8 ■ dbDH-\ ^—8ssDh + £(Dl ~ DhY>
                                                                    Liquidity shock


                                                          2 g2
           rDL = (c — χ) — dTDL + μδ ■ dbDb Η —dbbDL + λ (Β — Dl) ■
                                                                          Secondary market


The boundary conditions are DH = DL = ρ at τ = 0 because of the princi
pal repayment at maturity, and Dt = at 8 = 8b, where i e {H, L} as in
Lemma 2.
  The first equation in (5) defines DH. The left-hand side rDH is the required
(dollar) return from holding the bond, which equals the right-hand side captur
ing expected returns from holding the bond. The first term is the coupon pay
ment. The next three terms capture the expected value change due to change
in time-to-maturity τ (the second term) and fluctuation in the cash flow δ, (the
third and fourth terms). The last term is a loss DL — DH caused by liquidity


  22Consequently, before the firm defaults, Η investors are indifferent between staying out of
the market, buying bonds of maturity Τ at reissue via the primary market, or buying bonds of
maturities τ e (0, T) on the secondary market.




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1458 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 shocks that transform Η investors into L investo
sity of ξ.
   The second equation in (5) for DL follows a similar explanation to the one
above. The two differences are on the right-hand side: the L investor incurs
a holding cost χ, and the last term reflects the value impact of the secondary
market. An L investor meets a dealer with an intensity of λ and then sells his
bond (with a private value DL) at the bid price B = DL+ß(DH — DL). Plugging
Β into equation (5), we have λ(Β - DL) = λβ(ΰΗ - DL). One can thus inter
pret λβ as the bargaining-weighted effective intensity of "transitioning" (via a
sale) back from the L state to the Η state.
   We now define the matrix A that incorporates the discount factors and the
effective transition intensities ξ and λβ of the states. The following decompo
sition holds:


             A =
                   r + ξ -ξ '         = PRP
                                              ,-ι

                   —λβ r + λβ

where R ξ diag[fi, r2\ with ο = r + ξ + λβ > r = r2 is the matrix
values of A, and Ρ is the matrix of stacked eigenvectors. We will see
fi s are akin to effective discount rates as we will be discounting via t
exp(-Ar) = Pexp(-Rr)P_1. For a given default boundary 8b, the nex
sition gives the closed-form solution for bond valuations.

   Proposition 1: The bond valuations are given by

                         Dh(S, t)
(6) D(S, τ) EE
                         Dl(8, t)

                     = A~1c + exp(-Ar) (p - A_1c)[l - F{8, τ)]
                                                    =kD
                                                    — F




                         + PG(5,t)P~1 (aVb — A_1c)
                                                    =kD
                                                    ~ G




Here, by defining a = £ - φ1 = 0, φ2 = -2a, yjh2 =-a ± J
{ρ, p)T, c = {c,c — ^)T, and q(8, ρ, t) = log(gD-log(g)_-(p+g) o·-^ t

given by G(8,t) = [g^-t) g^S t)],



              ^δ'τ)ΞΣ(0 φ[?(δ'<Ροτ)],




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 145 9


where Φ(χ) is the cumulative distribution function for a standard normal distri
bution.


  A closer inspection of the solution reveals a linear combination (via the ma
trix P) of two LT96 solutions, each composed of three terms: the first term gives
the value of a risk-free consol bond, the second term encapsulates the possibil
ity that the bond will mature before default, and the third term encapsulates
the possibility that the bond will default before maturity. Relative to LT96,
each of these independent subsolutions i = {1,2} has a distorted discount rate
f, a distorted coupon rate c, = (P_1c),, a distorted principal p, = (P_1c),, and
a distorted recovery value ά, = CP-1«),.23 Finally, when A ->■ oc so that the sec
ondary market becomes perfectly liquid, bond values converge to the original
LT96 case, as a simple inspection of Ρ reveals.

  Credit Spreads: The bond credit spread is defined as the spread be
tween the corporate bond yield and the risk-free rate r. Given a bond of value
D{8, τ), the bond yield is defined as the unique yield that solves


(7) D(8, τ) = ~ (1 - e~y,MT) + ρ ■ e-yield\

so that the right-hand side is the present value of a bond (discounted by yield)
with a constant coupon payment c and a principal payment p, conditional on
it being held to maturity without default or re-trading. Because the ask price
Dh is also the price of a newly issued bond, which is commonly used in the
structural corporate bond pricing literature, for the remainder of the paper
we simply take the ask price DH(8,T) in Proposition 1 as our bond price for
the left-hand side of equation (7).24 For later references, we define the credit
spread cs as cs = yield — r.


                         3.2. Equity Valuation and Firm Value

  Equity holders of the firm receive the net cash flow in (4) every instant. Be
cause equity is naturally an infinite maturity security and we are investigating a
stationary (debt maturity structure) setting, the equity value E{8) satisfies the
following ODE without time dimension:

                                          J           0.2                 g2
   (8)                     rE                    =             8            -           (1   —
                                         v           ν           '
                                                  Rollover                                   g




      23Given a ma
      24Our later c
     \{A                                        +                 B)                    =    \




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1460 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 where the left-hand side is the required rate of re
 right-hand side, the first three terms are the equity
 the next two terms are capturing the instantaneo
 earlier, the term involving square brackets is the cas
 rolling over debt (while keeping coupon, princip
 with 1 / Τ being the rollover frequency.
    Given a default boundary 8b, the next propositio
 via (8), which is nontrivial due to the highly non
in (6).25

 Proposition 2: Given a default boundary 8b, the equity value is given by
                          / O \ 7J2 C

(9) E(8,Sb) = kf(-) + + kE0
         \ ) τ μ


                          + ^y^S[-exp(-Ar)k^gf(5) + PgG

where gG(S) = ie°(S)], t?u = -a± ja2 + £#
and


                - - 77)C
         kE = -(1
          0 r


               + ^[(i - *)S(k£ + exp(-Ar)k^) - p]
                     8b
         kf = —{ —-—l· kE
                    r-μ



               + |(1- k)S[— exp(—AT)kpgF(8b) + PgG(5fc)P_1kp]^,
                   _ J-λ I xm xm
        gp(x) = ——— /J <Pi> V2, Τ) - — Η (χ, φι, Ί]χ, Τ)
                                       Ob             Ob




                  gGj{x)                                                             Ξ
   25The                             two                     boundary
 and   lims_00   |Ε(δ^'·' |  <
 It is  worthwhile    to    po
 the   levered  firm   valu
 calculation   performed
 dealers   in the  seconda




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1461

           Η (δ, ρ, η, Τ)


                     ν-ρ
                                     [q{8,p,T)}
                           - 8bea'm7>+a)2-(i>+a)2]'T2T<i>[q(8, η, Τ)]},

                     aVT[q{8, ρ, Γ)Φ[^(δ, ρ, Γ)]
                           + Φ{4(δ,ρ,Τ))], ρ = η,
where q(-, ·, ■), kg, kg, and kg are given in Proposition
normal density function, and S = (1,0) is the vector sum
issued at Dh.


                               3.3. Endogenous Default Boundary

   So far, we have taken the default boundary 8b as given
dard smooth pasting condition dsE(8; 8b)\s=sb = 0 to dete
chosen by equity holders.


   PROPOSITION 3: The endogenous default boundary 8b is


           8b = (r — μ)        τ/2 — 1 + ■ Ρ · hGP_1a


                       -172&0 + ' (exP(-AT")kphF + Ρ · hGP 1 · kg)


where hG = [h°^ ],and 2"



                           2


                     2 Σ—"—{Φ[-(^/ + a)aVf]
                     σ ^ Vi-<P

                     ΡτΦ[-(ηι +α)σ-/Τ]\,

                       -Αέ —-— {φΗ^<+e)oVf ]
           ho, =
                           σtiηι - y>>
                           - β(Γ~Γΐ)Τφ[-{·ηι + a)aVT]}, γ;7 φ η1}
                      see Appendix, γ μ = ηχ.

  We note that as Τ -* oo, the boundary converges to the one fo
(1994).




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1462 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


                                   3.4. Endogenous Liquidity
     Recall that Lemma 1 showed that the (dollar)
 fraction of the surplus Π (δ, τ):

  (10) Α(δ, τ) - Β(δ, τ) = (1 - β)[ΰΗ(δ, τ) -
 Empirically, the effective percentage bid-ask spre
 used (e.g., EHP07, Bao, Pan, and Wang (2011), Jan
 rahmanyam (2013)), which is often defined as the
 by the midpoint of transaction prices:

 Π1Λ ars \ Α(δ, τ) — Β(δ, τ) (Ι-β)Π(δ,τ)
 (11) Δ{δ,τ) =

                            ^Α(δ, τ) + ^Β(δ,τ) ϋΗ(δ, τ) - ίγ^/7(δ,
 We focus on percentage bid-ask spreads Δ(δ, τ) in later
 note that a rising Δ(δ, τ) can be due to increasing dollar
 (1 - β)Π(δ, τ), as well as a drop in the bond value.
  Proposition 4, below, gives the key comparative statics for
liquidity measures under certain sufficient conditions, whic
our baseline parameters in our later calibration. For the rema
the term par bond refers to a bond that is issued at par in the
 that is, ΰΗ(δ) = p.

    PROPOSITION 4: For (δ, τ) e (öb, oo) χ (0, Τ), we have the f
results'.
   1. Derivative in state space δ.
   (a) The dollar bid-ask spread (1 — β)Π(δ, τ) is decreasing in δ if


 (12) (aH — aL) 8h X
             r- μ r+ξ+λβ

In words, under (12), all else equal, bonds with a lower distan
higher dollar bid-ask spreads.
  (b) Consider bonds with ρ > cr, which always holds for par
tential default). Then, the percentage bid-ask spread Δ(δ, τ) i
(12) holds and ΌΗ(δ, τ) is increasing in δ. One sufficient cond
being increasing in δ is


 (13) ρ >           OiH + ~{θίΗ — aL)
                           r
                                            r-μ

    2. Derivative in time space. The dollar bid-ask spread (1
creasing in τ if

(14) aH — aL > 0.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                       ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1463

In words, under (14) (so that the post-default market is illiquid), all else equal,
shorter-term bonds have lower dollar bid-ask spreads.
    3. If the condition in (14) holds, then the surplus from trade Π (δ, τ) is every
where nonnegative. This implies that trade always takes place whenever an L-type
holding the bond establishes contact with a dealer.


  The first set of results implies that our structural model can generate the em
pirical regularity of higher transaction costs (bid-ask spreads) for bonds issued
by lower rating firms. When the firm is far away from bankruptcy, or δ -> oo
so that bonds are default-free as in the original DGP05 model, we have

                                          I _ g-(r+f+A/3)T
                lim Π (δ, τ)
                δ->οο r + ζ 4- λ/3

 For the bid-ask spread to be decreasing in the distance-to-defau
 necessary condition is that the bid-ask spread at δ = δι, is high
 δ —» oo. Condition (12) in part 1(a) of Proposition 4 shows that
 sufficient condition, with the small change that we are using
 Γ+ξ+λβ = limineχ(l~er+(llß3'T) when τ becomes large. For t
 the paper, we concentrate on situations in which this sufficien
is satisfied.
  Additionally, in (12), we observe that the difference betwee
wedge for default-free bonds and the valuation wedge for po
is affected by the endogenous default boundary öb that is par
pre-default secondary market illiquidity. As illustrated in the
the positive default-liquidity feedback leads equity holders to
which gives rise to a higher bb. Interestingly, this endogenou
our sufficiency condition (12), by having a higher post-default
 (aH — ctL)-~f that is proportional to defaulted firm value, relat
 ity of default-free bonds r+f+xß that is independent of 6b. The
 post-default bond holders essentially become equity holders of
 such the value of their position and the valuation wedge are
cash-flow size 8b at default. This way, the pre-default illiquidity o
 market endogenously affects the post-default illiquidity of th
                              26
 ket through the endogenous default policy δ6.


   26In our simple post-default search-based model, the endogenous default boundary 8b only
affects the dollar bid-ask spread in post-default market, not the percentage bid-ask spread (which
is a function of aH and aL only). To deliver the latter result, a richer and more realistic setting is
needed where only hedge funds that are specialized in investing distressed/default securities are
the marginal buyers. If these specialized hedge fund investors are wealth-constrained and dealers
are also concerned about inventory risk, then a higher 8b, via increasing the total size of defaulted
securities, may lead to a greater percentage illiquidity in post-default market. We leave this topic
for future research.




             This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                              All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1464 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


   Next, result 1(b) shows that the same comparativ
 proportional bid-ask spread, a measure commonly
 ature. For this, however, we require an additiona
 increasing in 8. In words, we require that the bo
 to default, a condition that is guaranteed if the de
 low, as in condition (13).
   The second result, that the bid-ask spread is incre
 similar to Feldhiitter (2012), with the difference t
 deterministic instead of an intensity-based random
 maturity delivers the principal back to L investor
 outside option in bargaining. This reduces the ren
 ing in a smaller bid-ask spread. To the extreme,
 ately demandable from the firm, L investors gain
 dealers, and as a result, the bid-ask spread van
 In this sense, short-term debt provides liquidity
 become impatient.27 Of course, a downside exists
 turity structure is changed such that Τ -» 0, the
 8b tends to increase, as shown in He and Xiong (2
cussed in more detail in Section 5.1.
  Finally, the third result verifies the conjecture in Lemma 1 that trade occurs
with every L-dealer contact, which we thus far had implicitly assumed when
writing down the L investor's debt valuation equation in (5).


               3.5. Positive Feedback Between Default and Liquidity

  The endogenous liquidity derived in Section 3.4, together with endogenous
default, gives rise to a positive default-liquidity spiral. Specifically, deteriora
tion of firm fundamentals leads to a drop in bond values via either the wors
ening of pre-default secondary market liquidity, or the more likely bankruptcy
and thus severe post-default illiquidity. This in turn makes equity holders less
willing to rollover and thus edges the firm yet closer to default, leading (again)
to a further deterioration in secondary market liquidity.

3.5.1. Rollover Losses and Endogenous Liquidity

  To understand the mechanism, consider the rollover losses borne by equity
holders (recall equation (4)):


(15) NC,= 8, — (1 — 7r)c ~ [(1 — K)D(8t, Τ \ liquidity) — p\,
                     CF         Coupon                   v
                                                          Rollover




   27We cannot provide simple sufficient conditions for the percentage bid-ask spread Δ(δ, τ) to
be increasing in τ. But, under our parameters, 4(δ, τ) is increasing in time-to-maturity τ, which
is consistent with the empirical pattern.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1465

where D(8t, Τ; liquidity) is a generic term for primary market debt subject
to secondary market illiquidity. With infinite debt maturity Τ —> oo as in
Leland (1994), the term "Rollover" vanishes. LT96 featured rollover given a
finite debt maturity structure, but without secondary market liquidity. In LT96,
when the firm fundamental δ deteriorates, there are heavier rollover losses
4[D(S,, T) - p\ because investors adjust the market price of newly issued
bonds downward.
   In our model with an illiquid secondary market for corporate bonds, "liq
uidity" of the secondary market enters (15) in the bond pricing DH(8t, T) =
D(8t, Τ; liquidity (δ,)). This is because Η investors who purchase bonds on the
primary market worry about the illiquidity they will face when trying to sell
their holdings once hit by liquidity shocks. The worse the secondary market
liquidity, the lower the primary bond price D(8,, Τ; liquidity), the heavier the
rollover losses borne by equity holders. This lowers the equity holders' option
value of keeping the firm alive by servicing the debt, leading to earlier default.
Without the "rollover" term (e.g., in Leland (1994) with Τ = oo), the secondary
market frictions cannot affect the equity holders' default decision once debt is
in place, eliminating the feedback between liquidity and default.
  In models with constant secondary market liquidity (e.g., He and Xiong
(2012a)), "liquidity" enters D(δ,, Τ·, liquidity) in (15) exogenously, and does
not depend on the firm's distance-to-default. In contrast, our model endoge
nously links "liquidity" in DH(8t, T) = D(8t, Τ; liquidity(8,)) to firm funda
mental δ,. First, for firms closer to default, the higher illiquidity in the post
default market and the eventual bankruptcy losses lower the level of bond val
uations; this is the "level" effect. Moreover, as shown in Proposition 4, the en
dogenous bid-ask spread widens especially in bad times when firms are closer
to default; this is the "wedge" effect.28

3.5.2. Positive Default-Liquidity Spiral

 Figure 2 illustrates the positive default-liquidity spiral for corporate bond
markets in our paper. Imagine a negative shock to the firm's cash-flow rate 8.


   28The first "level" effect, but not the second "wedge" effect, can be delivered by extending He
and Xiong (2012a) to allow for delayed bankruptcy payouts with a more illiquid post-default sec
ondary market. More specifically, suppose that the exogenous proportional transaction cost in the
pre-default secondary bond market is k > 0, while the post-default secondary market has a higher
constant proportional transaction cost of Κ > k. When the firm gets closer to default, bond prices
go down partly due to a higher likelihood of the worse post-default illiquidity, but current liquid
ity remains the same. We prefer our DGP05 over-the-counter search market modeling for the
following reasons. First, our model can generate endogenous rating-dependent proportional bid
ask spreads before default. Second, the over-the-counter search-based micro-foundation gives
guidance in pinning down primitive market friction parameters, which is especially useful in eval
uating counterfactuals. Last, as we discuss in Section 5.1, in He and Xiong (2012a) the long-term
debt is always preferred over short-term debt because there is no inefficient waiting of L investors
(and thus there are less rich welfare implications).




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1466 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT

                      Cash-flow

                                       values
                      δ declines DebtDebt values p
                                         decline



                      Liquidity \j 1 Debt rollover
                      decreases! I more expensive


                                     I Equity
                                        Equityholders
                                                 holders
                                     Jdefault earlier*
                                        default    earlier



   Figure 2.—Feedback loop between default and liquidity in the corporate bond market.



Since this negative shock brings the firm closer to default, this shock directly
lowers bond investors' valuations DH and DL. This force is already present in
LT96 and He and Xiong (2012a).
  The novelty of our model is that a negative 8 shock not only lowers debt val
ues, but also worsens the secondary market liquidity by moving closer to pro
tracted bankruptcy court decisions and prohibitive holding costs in the post
default market. This gives rise to two forces that can lower bond valuations
even before default, because potential default worsens the seller's bond valu
ation when bargaining with a dealer. The first is the "level" effect illustrated
before: the looming default leads bond investors to put more weight on the
relatively higher post-default illiquidity discount. The second is the "wedge"
effect, as the dollar bid-ask spread in the pre-default secondary market goes
up, as shown in Proposition 4.29 We group both "level" and "wedge" forces to
gether as indicated by the left large arrow with "declining liquidity" in Figure 2.
  The "declining liquidity" then leads Η investors to value bonds less. Indi
cated by the arrow on the right of Figure 2, the lower bond prices—by generat
ing larger losses in (15)—feed back to the equity holders' default decision via
the rollover channel. Equity holders hence default earlier at a higher thresh
old 8b, which translates into a shorter distance to default. But as shown on
the left-hand side in Figure 2, the shorter distance to default further worsens
market liquidity via the declining outside option of L investors. Of course, a ra
tional Η investor aware of the non-constant liquidity anticipates these changes
in liquidity as 8 changes, and the outcome is the simple fixed point 8b given in
Proposition 3.


                              4. MODEL CALIBRATIONS

  In this section, we calibrate our model to explore the model's cross-sectional
implications. We first explain our parameter choices in Section 4.1. Section 4.2


  29In our later calibration, the proportional bid-ask spread in equation (11), which is widely
used in the empirical literature about corporate bond market liquidity, goes up after a negative δ
shock due to both the "level" effect and "wedge" effect.




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1467


presents the calibration to bonds of different rating classes, and Section 4
discusses the model implications on decomposing the credit spread into defa
and liquidity components.

                                       4.1. Parameters

4.1.1. Firm Parameters

   Without loss of generality, we normalize the bond face value to ρ = l.30 The
risk-free rate r = 2% and cash flow rate volatility of σ = 25% are standard in
the literature. We set the drift under Q to μ — -2.2%, which essentially affects
the overall match between credit spreads and leverage.31 We set π = 21% to
take into account the effect that many corporate bond investors are tax-exempt
financial institutions.32 We choose debt maturity Τ = 10 to be consistent with
the literature on structural bond pricing. This choice also implies that both the
mean and median of the maturity of the firm's outstanding debt are Τ/2 = 5
years, roughly consistent with Custodio, Ferreira, and Laureano (2013). The
issuance cost of κ = 1% is from Chen (2010). Finally, we pin down the coupon
c = 4% and initial cash flow <50 = 0.12 by targeting a credit spread of 200 basis
points (bps) for BBB rated par bonds (Huang and Huang (2012)).

4.1.2. Parameters for Search Frictions

  We rely on implied bond illiquidity to determine parameters on search fric
tions. We choose the liquidity shock intensity ξ = 0.7 which, together with
A = 26, implies a turnover of about 68% a year, close to the turnover in
the data.33 We assume holding costs are given by χ = χρρ + xcc. We choose

  30It is straightforward to show that the model is homogeneous of degree 1 with respect to
face value ρ in that ΏΔδ,ο,χ,ρ) = ρ ■ A(fl f, *,1), Ε(δ; c,x,p) = ρ ■ Εφ j, *,1), and
Sft(c, χ,ρ) — pöb(j;, p,l)· For example, fix the initial cash flow, coupon, holding cost, and prin
cipal, that is, fix (<5o> c, X, P)· Then all relative measures, for example, proportional bid-ask spread
Δ = , market leverage ML = -φ, quasi-market leverage QL = -φ, and yield spreads, are
the same as in a model with initial cash flow and parameters (^, £, *, 1).
   31 Our model is cast in a risk-neutral world. The choice of μ = —2.2% is consistent with a drift
of 1.8% under the physical measure V, a volatility of 10% on systemic risk, and a price of risk
(or Sharpe ratio) of 40%. Our choices of r and μ are broadly consistent with existing literature
on structural corporate bond pricing models. For instance, in Bhamra, Kuehn, and Strebulaev
(2010) with two macro states, their primitive parameters imply an average interest rate of 2.36%
and an average real cash flow growth of -0.66%, under measure Q. In Chen (2010) with nine
macro states, under measure Q the average real interest rate is about 0.67% and the average real
growth is about —3.4%.
  32While the tax rate on bond income is 32%, many institutions holding corporate bonds enjoy
tax exemption. Thus, we use an effective bond income tax rate of 25%. Then, the formula given
by Miller (1977) implies a debt tax benefit of 1 - [(1 - 32%)(1 - 15%)/(1 - 25%)] = 26.5%,
where 32% is the marginal rate of corporate tax and 15% is the marginal rate of capital gain tax.
  33The average turnover in the TRACE database is about 70% a year. In our model, the average
time that an investor is holding the bond (including the time that the investor remains at H-type




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1468 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 the holding costs parameters χρ = 0.32% and \
 spreads for BBB and AA rated bonds (see Fig
choices in more detail in Section 4.2.
   For the bargaining power allocation between dealers and investors, we set
β = 3% (i.e., dealers get 97% of the trading surplus) in the baseline case. This
is following Feldhütter (2012), which, to the best of our knowledge, is the only
paper that provides an estimation of β based on a different structural model
involving search.
   The parameter λ is the meeting intensity of investors with dealers. Although
we are using a search-based framework to model the secondary corporate bond
market, we would like to interpret the trading friction in our model more
broadly. For instance, the average time spent during search, which is l/λ in
the model, can be interpreted as the time it takes for the liquidity-shocked in
vestors to sell their holdings completely. We choose λ = 26 in the baseline, so
that it takes L-type investors about 2 weeks to divest of their bond holdings
completely.34
  Since there exist few empirical counterparts to pin down β and λ, we will
provide comparative statics with respect to these two parameters in Section 4.2.

4.1.3. Effective Recovery Rates at Default

  The effective recovery rates at default, that is, aH and aL, are the two param
eters that anchor the pre-default prices. As the post-default trading data are
very sparse, we pin down aH and a, in a model-free way instead of using the
structural model developed in Section 2.4. To this end, we use recovery rates
derived from first trading prices after default obtained in the existing literature,
and the observed bid-ask spreads for defaulted bonds.
  We first borrow from existing corporate bond pricing models, for exam
ple, Chen (2010), Bhamra, Kuehn, and Strebulaev (2010). The estimate of
bankruptcy recovery from Chen (2010) is about 0.5— (average across aggre
gate states). The bankruptcy recovery in Chen (2010) is defined as the trading
price right after default, which is likely to be the bid price [(1 — ß)aL + βαΗ] χ
      We then set the bid-ask spread of defaulted corporate bonds to be 300 bps,


and that he is L-type but searching) is A + A. As we will set λ = 26 in the baseline, A + A is about
1.47,andl/(i + i) = 68%.
   34This includes the time that the investor needs to find the right dealer(s) who have either the
right inventories or the right trading partners, as well as the time that this dealer in turn needs
to find the right trading partners. Moreover, in the model, the seller's market in Assumption 1
implies that there are always buyer-dealer pairs waiting to complete the transaction immediately.
If we take into account that, in practice, seller-dealer pairs need to wait for buyer-dealer pairs in
a symmetric way, then it implies a much higher one-sided meeting intensity. Another noteworthy
point is that the choice of A should represent the weighted average of searching length over
business cycle under the risk-neutral measure. If it is much harder to find dealers to complete a
trade in bad times, then the lengthy waiting time in bad times should receive a greater weight.




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1469

a number based on Jankowitsch, Nagler, and Subrahmanyam (2013), who re
ported a transaction cost of 280 bps for defaulted bonds. The aH,aL that match
the reported trading price and bid-ask spread at default are aH = 51.5% and
aL = 50%.35 One can, of course, translate our choices of effective recovery
rates aH and aL to deeper structural parameters in Section 2.4, but it is appar
ent that we can only identify two parameters with the limited amount of data
we have.


4.1.4. Ultimate Recovery Rate

   In Section 4.3, we further assess the effect of secondary market liquidity on
bond pricing, taking into account the liquidity-default interaction established
in this paper. This exercise requires us to estimate the ultimate recovery of
defaulted bonds, so that we can evaluate the LT96 benchmark without any
liquidity frictions. To this end, we use Moody's default and recovery database,
which gives the trading price right after default and its eventual recovery value
at the settlement (or emergence) date for a total of 641 defaulted corporate
bonds from 1987 to 2011.36
  As our model is cast in the risk-neutral measure, the crucial step in recov
ering the ultimate recovery a is to adjust for "risk" appropriately. We rely
on the commonly accepted Fama-French factor approach. We first form a
portfolio that consists of all defaulted bonds for a given year, which is re
balanced annually. Since each bond can take more than one year to emerge
from bankruptcy, we amortize the total return into each calendar year based
on time spent in each year. We then estimate the multi-factor alpha of the de
faulted bond portfolio over 1987-2011 in the spirit of Fama and French (1989,
1992,1993). Taking the factors to be market excess return, TERM factor (the
yield difference between 10-year and 1-month treasuries), and DEF factor (the
AAA-BAA spread), the defaulted bond portfolio has an estimated alpha (an
annual excess return) of 23% (ί = 2.05).37 This excess return applies to the


  35It matters little if we assume the trading price right after default is the bid-price or the mid

price. Suppose that, at default, we have price = y~^ and BAprop — x. Then, if we take the mid
point we have aH — aL = whereas if we take the bid price we have aH — aL = ~ .
Thus, with χ = 300 bps, taking the bid-price leads to a roughly 1.5% (proportionally) higher
wedge. With midpoint trading price, and y = 1/2, we have aH = 50.8% and aL = 49.2%.
  36The trading price right after default is the first transaction price up to 3 months after default.
The eventual recovery value is the so-called emergence price, which can be either trading price,
settlement price, or liquidation price at the time of bankruptcy emergence. We follow the Moody
preferred choice in deciding the bond's eventual recovery value.
   37The estimated market beta is 0.23 (t = 0.84), TERM beta is —2.96 (t = —0.79), and DEF
beta is -0.32 (t = -0.03), with R2 = 5%. When including SMB and HML factors in the regres
sion, the resulting alpha is about 30%; and if we only include market, SMB, and HML factors,
the resulting alpha is about 15%. All three specifications have pros and cons, and we decided to
take the mean of these three, which is close to the alpha based on market, TERM, and DEF.




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1470 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


average resolution period of 501 days or 1.37 ye
default and recovery database. Taking into accou
the ultimate recovery in our model, as a fraction
a = aL exp((23% + r) · 1.37) % 70.36% (with risk
  Hence, for the LT96 benchmark, the recovery fa
illiquidity in the post-default market, is estimat
68.46%. In fact, this estimate is obtained by com
return 23% over the resolution period of 1.37
the trading price right after default aL = 50.0%
1.37) = 68.46%, which is independent of our assum


           4.2. Calibration for Bonds in Different Rat

 We investigate the quantitative performance
bonds across rating classes. Relative to models w
ket liquidity (say, He and Xiong (2012a)), tying s
firm's distance-to-default allows us to parsimon
cross-sectional pattern of illiquidity across credit
distance-to-default. This joint matching requirem
cipline on our calibration. For empirical mome
(2012, page 165, Table 1) we take the leverage
Poor's (1999)) and credit spreads data for corpo
classes (from AAA to B). We augmented the c
Huang (2012) using TRACE data (see captions i
liquidity across rating classes, EHP07 reported th
perior grade (AAA/AA) is about 40 bps, invest
50 bps, and junk grade (below BB) is about 70 bp
  We calculate the model-implied bid-ask spreads
different kinds of bonds, depending on whether
sure the bond is priced at par (recall that we no
For the first kind of bond, the firm cash flow 8
coupon, and thus, away from 50 = 0.12, the bond
treatment corresponds to bonds that have been
ating firm fundamentals lead these bonds to rece
(e.g., fallen angels).


 38These numbers are taken from EHP07, page 1441, Figu
median trade size of 240K (we take 200K for a clean reading
transaction cost is decreasing in trade size, one aspect th
only allow for one trade size for tractability. EHP07 reporte
correspond to one half of the percentage bid-ask spread. T
higher than the 27 bps reported in Schultz (2001) and Bes
man (2006). We use EHP07 because they reported transaction
junk rated bonds.




     This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                      All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                  ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1471


  For the second kind of bond, we adjust the individual and aggregate co
c to ensure that the bond is priced at par at whatever the prevailing δ is.
treatment corresponds to newly issued bonds for different firms, which
dard both in practice and in the structural bond pricing literature (e.g., L
Chen (2010)); for more explanation, see Appendix A.6. Unlike non-par bo
whose holding costs χ = \cc + χρρ are constant, for par bonds the distin
between and χρ matters: when δ varies, adjusting the coupon c (to
bonds selling at par) implicitly changes the holding costs. Recall that ho
costs are a proxy for the need to liquidate assets with some urgency once
liquidity shocks. This urgency-related discount leads us to assume \c > 0
cause higher coupons and thus higher bond valuation absent of liquidity
lems should result in higher holding costs to generate a comparable urgen
sell. See footnote 10 and Appendix A.4 for further explanations.
  In the data, bonds in each rating class can be either newly issued bond
seasoned bonds with rating changes. As a result, we present both calibra
with the understanding that the empirical moments are a weighted averag
both bonds. In choosing parameters \c and χρ, we set these two paramet
to roughly target the bid-ask spreads of BBB (non-par bonds) and AA
bonds).
  The calibration results are shown in Figure 3, with Panel A depicting credit
spreads cs = yield — r and Panel Β depicting proportional bid-ask spreads A.
To be consistent with Huang and Huang (2012), the horizontal axis is quasi




   Figure 3.—Calibration results. Panel A: Quasi-market leverage versus credit spread. Panel B:
Quasi-market leverage versus proportional bid-ask. Solid line: Adjusting c so bond always priced
at par. Dashed line: Fixed c = 400 bps. Dots: Weighted average of empirical credit spreads from
Huang and Huang (2012) (mainly from 1970s to 1990s with a weight of 2/3) and that from
TRACE (from 2005 to 2012 with a weight of 1 /3), where the weights reflect the relative sample
lengths. We follow Dick-Nielsen (2009) in cleaning up the TRACE data provided by Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, and calculate credit spread as the difference between the bond's
yield and the treasury yield with corresponding maturity.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1472 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 market leverage QL, defined as face-value of d
 debt plus market value of equity,

              QL{8) =
                           ρ + E{8) '

which is a simple negative monotone transform of 8 if equity is increasing
in δ.39 On each panel, the empirical moments across the rating classes are plot
ted as solid dots. The solid line graphs the model-implied moments for bonds
that are always issued at par, while the dashed line graphs the model-implied
moments for bonds without coupon adjustment. In the Panel A, we observe
that the model-implied credit spreads match the cross-sectional empirical pat
tern quite well.
   The Panel Β graphs model-implied bid-ask spreads as well as empirical mo
ments across different ratings. As expected, the model-implied bid-ask spreads
will depend on whether we adjust the coupon rate across different ratings (for
the requirement of issue-at-par). Since, all else equal, the holding cost due
to a liquidity shock increases with the coupon, this gives rise to an additional
issue-at-par effect that makes the bid-ask spread go up for newly issued bonds
with lower ratings. As a result, for par bonds (that feature a coupon adjust
ment to keep the par-pricing throughout varying leverage) the implied bid-ask
spreads tend to vary with credit ratings more than that for (non-par) bonds
without coupon adjustment. Quantitatively, in our calibration for bonds with
out coupon adjustment, the change of implied proportional bid-ask spread
when varying from superior grade to junk grade is about 24 bps (43 bps for
AAA to 67 bps for B), which explains about 2/3 of the bid-ask spread differ
ence in the data.40 Overall, acknowledging that the data are some weighted
average of both types of bonds that proxy for newly issued and legacy bonds,
Figure 3 suggests that our baseline model does a reasonably good job at jointly
matching the cross-sectional pattern of credit spread and liquidity quantita
tively.
  Figure 4 gives comparative static analysis for model-implied bid-ask spreads
when we consider a higher meeting intensity λ = 52 (Panel A) and a higher
bargaining power β = 6% (Panel B). The quantitative effect of β is worth dis
cussing. Recall that the dollar bid-ask spread is (1 — β)Π in Proposition 1.
The direct effect of a higher β = 6%, relative to the baseline β = 3%, is quite
small (0.94 versus 0.97, so about 3% lower). However, a higher β reduces the


   39This leverage measure is used by Standard & Poor's. Note that QL e [0,1] with QL(8b) = 1,
lims-0O QL(8) = 0, and QL'{8) < 0 iff E'(8) > 0.
   40The variation of proportional bid-ask spreads can be due to changes in both bond values and
dollar bid-ask spreads. Most quantitative evidence of transaction costs being higher for lower
rated bonds is on proportional bid-ask spreads (EHP07, Chen, Lesmond, and Wei (2007), Bao,
Pan, and Wang (2011)), and we do not have well-established empirical moments of dollar bid-ask
spreads to judge the quantitative performance of our model.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
             ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1473

                 Α: (3
           Panel A:    doubles to
                    β doubles  to 6%
                                  6% Panel
                                     Panel Β: A doubles
                                           B: λ doubles to 52




       0.2   0.3     0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.2    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.6      0.7




  Figure                     4.—Comparative static
 cles) to                    6% (with circles). Pane
 circles). In both graphs, the sol
 the dashed lines have a fixed c



  endogenous debt valuatio
  market liquidity, and indi
  a more efficient default d
  equilibrium effect: contr
  a higher β = 6% lowers th
  33 bps, a relative decreas
   It is a strong empirical r
  actions                           costs                      decrease                     w
 nation is that large trade
 either higher bargaining
 view is consistent with ou
investors for future research.


         4.3. Quantifying the Endogenous Liquidity-Default Interaction

   It has been widely recognized that the credit spread of corporate bonds re
flects not only a default premium determined by the firm's credit risk, but also
a liquidity premium due to the illiquidity of the secondary debt market (e.g.,
Longstaff, Mithal, and Neis (2005)). We propose a model-based decomposi
tion which not only nests the additive default-liquidity decomposition used in
the literature, but also highlights the novel liquidity-default interaction in our
model. We then apply this decomposition to the corporate bond market in the
recent 2007/2008 financial crisis.

4.3.1. A Model-Based Liquidity-Default Decomposition

  It is common practice to decompose firms' credit spreads into liquidity and
default components based on CDS prices, and then assess their quantitative




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1474 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 contributions independently; see, for example,
 (2005), Beber, Brandt, and Kavajecz (2009), an
 however, liquidity and default components of
 positive correlation (EHP07, Bao, Pan, and W
 Dick-Nielsen, Feldhütter, and Lando (2012) an
 Subrahmanyam (2012) documented that liquidit
 ket dried up substantially during the 2007/2008 cr
 bonds with speculative grade.
  Our model further implies that the intuitive
 emplified in Longstaff, Mithal, and Neis (2005)
 and default affect the credit spread. Often, th
 interpretation that liquidity or default is the c
 nent, and each component would be the resultin
 down the other channel. However, in our mode
 consequences of underlying frictions. For exam
 ket liquidity helps mitigate the firm's default r
default premium is in fact driven by liquidity.
 To address this issue, we propose a finer deco
ditive default-liquidity decomposition common
tially, we further decompose the default (liqui
(pure-liquidity) part and a liquidity-driven def
part, as follows:

                  Default component csdef Liquidity component csuq

(16) CS — CSpureDEF + CSuQ-+DEF + CSpureLIQ + CS

 By separating causes from consequences, our d
 liquidity (default) can lead to the rise of sprea
 This conceptually important point is particularl
 nomic consequence of government policies (e.g
liquidity).
   Let us start with the default component. Imagine a hypothetical investor who
is not subject to liquidity problems (both pre- and post-default) and consider
the spread that this investor requires over the treasury rate for holding the cor
porate bond. The resulting spread, which is csDEF, only prices the default event
of hitting 8b. Importantly, the default boundary 8b in calculating csDEF is under
the assumption that the bond investors are still facing the liquidity and search
frictions central to our model. In contrast, we define the "Pure-Default" com
ponent csPureDEF as the spread implied by the benchmark LT96 model and its
corresponding default boundary 8^T absent any liquidity frictions in the pri
mary and secondary market. Because illiquidity in the bond market leads to
heavier rollover losses and thus an earlier default, the default component csDEf
is larger than the pure-default component cspureDEF under LT96. We call the dif
ference csDEF - cSpUreDEF the "Liquidity-Driven Default" part, which quantifies




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
             ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1475


the effect that bond illiquidity in the secondary bond market makes default
more likely.
  The liquidity component is defined as the difference between the credit
spread required by a representative Η investor who is subject to liquidity
shocks, which is just cs implied by our model, and that required by a hypothet
ical investor without liquidity shocks while facing the same default boundary,
which is csDEF ■ The definition csUq = cs — csdef in (16) is in line with Longstaff,
Mithal, and Neis (2005). We then calculate the "Pure-Liquidity" part c~spureUQ as
the spread implied by the benchmark DGP05 with liquidity frictions but with
out default. The remaining residual, csLIq ~ csPureUQ, is the "Default-Driven
Liquidity" part. Economically, the default-driven liquidity part arises because
default leads to a more illiquid post-default secondary market, and this in turn
affects pre-default liquidity.

4.3.2. Decomposition Results

  Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012) reported credit spreads
and liquidity measures for both investment and speculative bonds over normal
and crisis times, which are given in Table I, Panel A. We focus our exercise on
par bonds in the main text; Appendix A.8 gives qualitatively similar results for
non-par bonds with a baseline coupon rate of 400 bps (see baseline parameters
in Table II).
   This subsection focuses on the model-based decomposition in normal times.
In Table I, we choose cash flow levels to target the credit spreads of both par
bonds in normal times, and Panel C gives the decomposition under our base
line calibrations. For the LT96 benchmark, recall that the estimated recovery
rate was estimated to be 61.67% in Section 4.1.3 based on Moody's ultimate
recovery database.
  Not surprisingly, the pure-liquidity component is more important for invest
ment grade bonds (28%) compared to speculative grade bonds (10%), while
the pure-default component is more important for speculative bonds (62%)
compared to investment grade bonds (47%). Our main focus, however, is the
liquidity-default interaction terms. For investment (speculative) grade bonds
with a credit spread of 100 (350) bps, 16% (21%) of this credit spread is
the default-driven liquidity component, while about 9% (7%) belongs to the
liquidity-driven default component. In total, both interaction terms account
for about 25%-28% of observed credit spreads for investment and speculative
grades.

4.3.3. Decompositions in Normal Time and Crisis Time

  The 2007/2008 financial crisis exhibited both rising credit spreads and illiq
uidity in the corporate bond market (Dick-Nielsen, Feldhiitter, and Lando
(2012), and Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012)). How much
of this change came from a deteriorating fundamental and how much was due




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
  1476 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT

                                                        TABLE I

      Default-Liquidity Decomposition for Investment and Speculative Grade Par
                                    Bonds in Normal and Crisis Times"


                                               Investment Grade Speculative Grade
                                     Normal          Crisis         Change         Normal          Crisis         Change

                                                     Panel A: Data
Credit spread bps                      97             321            224             348           1082               734
                                                                    (3.3x)                                        (3.1x)
Illiquidity                             1             1.5             0.5             1              2                 1
                                                                   (1.5x)
                                                                    (1.5x)                                       (2.0x)
                                                                                                                  (2.0x)
                                                    Panel B: Model
Credit spread bps                      100            336            236             350           1032               682
                                                                    (3.4x)                                        (2.9x)
BA spread bps                          42              52             10             60             121               61
                                                                   (1.2x)                                        (2.Ox)
                                     Panel C: Model-Based         Decomposition
Pure default                           47             216             169            218            714               496
                                     (47%)          (64%)           (72%)          (62%)          (69%)
                                                                                                  (69%)           (73%)
Liquidity-driven default                9              19             10             23              38               15
                                      (9%)           (6%)           (4%)            (7%)           (4%)           (2%)
Pure liquidity                         28              28             0              35              35                0
                                     (28%)           (8%)           (0%)           (10%)           (3%)           (0%)
Default-driven liquidity               16             73              57             74             246               172
                                     (16%)          (22%)           (24%)          (21%)          (24%)           (25%)
Total                                  100            336            236            350            1032               682
                                    (100%)         (100%)          (100%)         (100%)          (100%)         (100%)

    aBaseline parameters are given in Table II, with a^j = 68.46% given in Section 4.1.3. The data in Panel A are
from Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012). Panel Β and Panel C give model-implied moments for par
bonds so that credit spread and coupon spread coincide in normal times. To match normal time credit spreads, we
adjust the initial cash flow to deliver credit spreads of 100 bps and 350 bps for investment and speculative grade,
respectively. Crisis is modeled as a negative cash flow shock of —50%, which is chosen to target the rise of credit
spread of investment grade bonds. Bonds are not at par in crisis times.




to worsening liquidity? Our model allows us to make the first, yet crude, at
tempt to quantitatively match the observed patterns across both investment
and speculative bonds, and quantitatively assess the relative contribution of
each component based on the liquidity-default decomposition in (16).
  Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012) reported liquidity mea
sures for both investment and speculative bonds over normal and crisis times,
which are shown in Table I, Panel A. To better match our model, we take two
well-established transaction cost measures used in Friewald, Jankowitsch, and
Subrahmanyam (2012), the Amihud measure and the Roll measure, normalize
their normal time levels to be 1, and report the (simple) average of the rela




               This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                                All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                  ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1477

                                                TABLE II

                          Model Parameters for Baseline Calibrations

            Firm
             FirmCharacteristics
                      Characteristics       Illiquid Secondary        Market
                                                         Illiquid Secondary Market

Parameter    Interpretation       Value     Parameter      Interpretation                           Value


(7
σ
             Volatility           25%       r              Interest rate                            2%
μ            Drift                -2.2%     Xp             Holding cost
                                                           Holding       prop to
                                                                   cost prop   toρp                 0.32%
π
7T           Tax
             Tax   shield
                 shield           27%       Xc                      cost prop
                                                           Holding cost        to cc
                                                                         prop to                    0.11
Ρ
P             Principal            1        ξf             Intensityofofliquidity
                                                           Intensity      liquidityshock
                                                                                     shock          0.7
C
c
              Coupon               4%       Aλ              Intensitytotomeet
                                                           Intensity                 dealers
                                                                             meetdealers           26
Τ
T             Bond
              Bond maturity
                   maturity       10        Pß             Bargaining
                                                           Bargaining power      investors
                                                                       powerofofinvestors           3%
κK            Issuance costs       1%
                                   1%       '*H
                                            '*H             Recovery
                                                           Recovery       value    H type
                                                                               value      Η type   51.5%
So            Initial cash flow    0.12     OiL
                                            OIL            Recovery value L type                   50.0%




 tive rise of illiquidity in crisis time.41 Overall, the bond illiquidity goes up by a
 factor of 1.5 for investment grade and by a factor of 2.0 for speculative grade.
 Regarding credit spreads, investment (speculative) grade credit spreads rise
 from 97 (348) bps to 321 (1082) bps in crisis time.
    As our model only has one source of exogenous (cash flow) shocks, we inter
 pret the crisis as a common (aggregate) negative shock dZ, in (1) which affects
 the cash flow δ of all firms. Recall that, in Section 4.3.2, we set the normal time
 initial cash flow rate δ0 for each rating class by targeting the corresponding
 credit spreads in normal times and pricing at par. We then impose a negative
 fundamental shock of dZt = -50% to target the rise of the credit spread for
 investment grade bonds observed in the crisis. Given this negative common
 shock, Table I, Panel Β calculates the model-implied rise in credit spread and
 illiquidity for bonds with investment grade and speculative grade ratings. Be
 cause we are interested in the impact of negative fundamental shocks only, we
 do not adjust the coupon post-shock, so bonds are not priced at par anymore
 and there is no change in holding costs. The model roughly matches the data in
 Panel A (except that the implied multiplier of illiquidity for investment grade
 is only 1.2 in the model, while it is 1.5 in the data). Interestingly, the smaller
 of the interaction terms, the liquidity-driven default component, is of the same
 magnitude as the pure-liquidity component for both bonds in the crisis state.
    Panel C answers the question raised in the beginning: how important is each
 of the four components in the decomposition (16) in explaining the total rise of


   41For detailed definitions, see Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012). Friewald,
 Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012, Table 7, page 33) considered four other trading mea
 sures: volume, trades, trade intervals, and fraction of zero-return days; all these four measures
 vary little from normal time to crisis time. They also considered price dispersion, which also
 tends to be contaminated by trading activities. We focus on the Amihud and the Roll measures
 because these two measures roughly capture transaction costs (thus close to the endogenous bid
 ask spread in our model), rather than trading intensities.




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1478 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 credit spreads for both grades? For both bonds,
 cSpureDEF rises significantly, and contributes ab
 in credit spreads. As expected, there is no rise in
 nent, because our model features constant second
 default. On the interaction terms, both default-
 driven default components go up in crisis, with th
 being the more quantitatively important one (ab
   Our model biases against the liquidity-driven d
 underlying shocks take the form of only cash flo
 rameters that characterize the liquidity of the s
 ket. The recent financial crisis involved both aggr
 aggregate liquidity shocks, and the latter are mis
 ably, the aggregate liquidity shock was caused by
 ers, mutual funds, insurance companies) going in
 rupting the functioning of the secondary corpora
 lend more weight to the liquidity-driven defaul
 tion of this issue requires one to model time-vary
 fluctuating with macroeconomic conditions. We
 quantitative performance in matching the non-d
 spreads both across ratings and over business c
 Chen et al. (2013).

                                      5. DISCUSSION

                              5.1. Optimal Debt Maturity

  In our model, debt maturity features a natural trade-off between liquidity
provision and earlier inefficient default. Section 3.4 has shown that bonds wit
shorter maturity have a more liquid secondary market, suggesting a role of
liquidity provision for short-term debt. First, shortening maturity alleviates this
inefficiency because of the firm's superior primary market liquidity: wheneve
debt matures, the firm moves debt from inefficient L investors to efficient
investors via new bond issuance. Second, a shorter maturity reduces the rent
extracted by dealers in the secondary market, because a shorter maturity—by
allowing L investors to receive principal payment earlier—raises their outsid
option of waiting.42


  42The firm could, instead of providing liquidity via maturity, allow bondholders with liquidity
shocks to put back their bonds at face value p. There are two important drawbacks. First, if th
firm cannot distinguish who was hit by a liquidity shock, whenever DH < ρ all Η investors will
put back their debt at the same time. In fact, the put provision is akin to making bonds demand
deposits and we are in a traditional model of a bank run. Second, even if the liquidity shock is
observable, there will be an additional flow term ξ[ΰΗ — pi dt as L investors are putting back their
bonds to the firm every instant. These additional refinancing losses may influence the bankruptc
boundary in an adverse way and destroy the liquidity thus provided. The full implications o
expanded bond contract terms are left for future work.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
              ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1479

  On the other hand, a positive primary market issuing cost κ naturally pushes
the firm away from using short-term debt. More importantly, as first shown in
LT96 (and formally proven in He and Xiong (2012a) and Diamond and He
(2013)),43 shorter debt maturity in an LT96 style model leads to earlier default
and thus greater dead-weight bankruptcy costs. In fact, the optimal maturity
in LT96 and He and Xiong (2012a) (even without primary issuing cost κ) is
T* = oo, that is, an infinitely lived consol bond is optimal. To see this, recall that
the equity holders' rollover gains or losses are ^[(1 - k)Dh(8, Τ) - /?] each
instant. In bad times (low fundamental δ), notwithstanding the fact that short
term debt has a greater market price DH{8, T), the effect of a higher rollover
frequency l/T dominates, leading to heavier rollover losses. As a result, equity
holders default earlier if the firm is using a shorter debt maturity structure.
  Thus, when equity holders set the firm's maturity structure to maximize the
initial firm value (the sum of debt and equity; for the closed-form solution of
firm value, see Appendix A.2), the above inherent trade-off between liquid
ity provision and bankruptcy risk can lead to an interior optimal T* < oo.44
Of course, this is an optimal strategy only in the restricted strategy space of
Leland-type models, in that it is within the class of strategies with fixed Γ, c,
and p. In an earlier version of the paper (He and Milbradt (2013)), we showed
that, for low (high) initial leverage, bankruptcy becomes more (less) remote,
and the effect of liquidity provision (bankruptcy cost) dominates, resulting in
a shorter (longer) optimal debt maturity. A poorly intermediated market also
pushes the debt maturity structure to be shorter because there is more liquidity
provision benefit via a short maturity structure.


                     5.2. Discussion of Asymmetric Information

  In our model, the important driving force behind the spiking bid-ask spread
near default is that there is a significant valuation wedge between H- and
L-type investors for defaulted bonds. In the literature as well as in practice,
an equally compelling explanation for the deteriorating liquidity of corporate
bonds near default is a possibly worsening adverse selection problem due to
information asymmetry. More specifically, one can imagine that some bond
investors have private information regarding the bond's recovery value in de

   43He and Xiong (2012a) proved this claim for given (c, p) in the LT96 framework. Diamond
and He (2013) proved this claim controlling for leverage, that is, adjusting (c, p) to maintain the
same debt value as shifts in the bankruptcy boundary caused by maturity shortening move the
value of debt, in the random maturity framework of Leland (1998).
  44Segura and Suarez (2011) presented a related trade-off in a banking model without sec
ondary markets but with periodic disruptions of the primary market for debt funding. Although
the probability of these disruptions is exogenous, the severity of the disruptions is determined
by how short the bank's maturity structure is. This is traded off against short-term debt being
cheaper outside crisis states. In contrast, our model features an endogenous probability of de
fault that is driven by the maturity structure, and we trade this off against endogenously cheaper
short-term debt due to search frictions.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1480 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


fault. As the firm edges closer to default, the in
comes more valuable and he is more likely to atte
guard against such adversely selected investors, a
and Milgrom (1985) tradition would raise the bid
persistent adverse selection with long-lived bond
lot more technical apparatus and thus awaits futu
(2013) provided an interesting paper in this direc
  We believe that search-based frictions play an
the-counter-based market. First, if "liquidity" in
by asymmetric information, then equity market
bond markets, contrary to what we observe in p
large-sized trades in the secondary corporate bon
lower transaction costs (see, e.g., EHP07 and Feld
to the search-based mechanism. In the data, o
importance between search-based liquidity and a
consider whether the bid-ask spread rises more fo
to be driven by search frictions) or large investor
information) as the firm nears default.45
 Last but not least, to the extent that an adverse
conceivably lead to a similar qualitative result if
concentrated in the bond's recovery value, then
model has the advantage of incorporating standa
models in a simpler setting while still delivering


                                   6. CONCLUSION

  We investigate the default-liquidity interactions in the corporate bond mar
ket by studying the endogenous liquidity of defaultable bonds in search-based
OTC markets jointly with the endogenous default decision by equity holders
from the firm side. By solving a system of PDEs and an ODE, we derive the
endogenous secondary market liquidity jointly with the debt valuations, equity
valuations, and the endogenous default policy, all in closed form. Our calibra
tion suggests that our model is able to quantitatively match the cross-sectional
pattern of bid-ask spreads observed in the data.
  The equity holders' option value of keeping the firm alive is hurt both by the
presence of the rollover channel that exposes the equity holders to the repric
ing of maturing bonds and by the fact that the liquidity of corporate bonds
worsens at the same time that the fundamental cash flow deteriorates signif
icantly. As a result, illiquidity of the secondary corporate bond market feeds
back to the distance-to-default of corporate bonds by edging the firm closer to
bankruptcy. Our model implies that the endogenous interaction between de
fault and liquidity, which is captured by our model-based default-liquidity de


  5We thank an anonymous referee for this excellent point.




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                   ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1481


composition, can be quantitatively important. We hope our fully solved struc
tural model and the resulting structural decomposition are useful in paving
the way for more research in understanding the impact of liquidity factors on
credit spreads of corporate bonds.
  In earlier working paper versions, we further incorporated endogenous firm
investment and showed that the mechanism, that is, a feedback loop between
the firm fundamental and the firm's (debt) financing liquidity, should encom
pass a broader set of firm level decisions beyond default.

                           APPENDIX A: PROOFS AND EXTENSIONS

                                                 A.l. Proofs
A. 1.1. Notation

   First, let us introduce possibly different discount rates for the Η and L
agents, rH = r, rL > rH, r = (rH, rL)T. For most of the proofs, we will look at
the special case r = rl, that is, r — rH = rL. Second, define ξΗ = ξ and = λ/3,
                     2

and μ = μ - γ, and the log-transform y = log(5) so that dy = fidt + adZ.
Third, for brevity we use the notation D' = γ and D = γ. We will, with abuse
of notation, write q(y,...) to mean yb~y+". Let Φ(χ) be the cumulative normal
function. We will use dH{y, T) as the debt value in terms of the log-cash flow,
so that dH(y, Τ) = DH(ey, Τ). Lastly, E[ ] is the expectations operator.

A. 1.2. Pre-Default Debt

   Proof of Proposition 1: Applying the log-transform y = log(δ) to the
system of PDEs, we are left with a linear system of PDEs:

               fH + £h —%h                  dH                c           dH       σ2   dH   dH
                                                                  +μ
                 —£l rL + fh                dL          C~X.              dL      +τ    dL   dL
                                                         .2


                             Α χ d = c + μά + τρά" - d,

where c = (c, c — χ)Ύ. Let us decompose A = PDP"1, where R is a diagonal
matrix with its diagonal elements the eigenvalues of A and Ρ is a matrix of the
respective stacked eigenvectors. For rH = rL = r, we have

             R =
                         f + ξ + λβ 0"
                              0      r


                   ^ *1 '
              P= \λ/3

              P-i_ 1 Γ-1 !"
                          ξ + λβ λβ ξ_




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1482 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


    Premultiplying the system by P1 and noting
 delinked system of PDEs with a common bankru
 and payout boundary t = 0:

                                                   σ2
           RP d = Ρ 'c + μΡxd + — P-'d" - Ρ Μ


                «=> Rd = c + /id' + yd"-d,
where d = P_Id and c = P_1c. The rows of the system are now delinked, and
we are left with two PDEs of the form

                ~       cr2^                  *
              ndj                    —            c,    Τ   μclί             Η          2   d,   d[

 with                  given                       boundary                    conditions
  from                       LT96.                      The      decompositio
across rows. The solution takes the form


           1 = (k?). + (k£),.e-'<'(l - Fi) + {%)&,
                             2


            Fj(y, 0 = Σ <p,7, 0],
                            i=1

                                 2


           Gj(y> ο = Σβ(γ yb)yii®[<i(y> yp* o],
                             i=l


where

             / ^ yb — y — (p + <*) · a2t
           q(y,p,t) =
                                             rft
and constants

                       Ci

                       'i




            (Φ, = (*-!,.             r,


                                     ey> ^
                        U                  Λ I )

                                 r~ μ rit

and some yet to be determined parameters <py, γ;ί. Note tha
lim,^0 = ~°° as yb < y> so Φ[l(y> Ρ» 0)1 = Ο for all i and
note that lim^oo q(y, p, t) = — oo, so lim^oo 0[^(y, p, /)] = 0




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1483


candidate solution d, into the PDE with (k^), = f, (kj?)< = pl — f , (kg), =
ft «του _ £t we see that
 1 r~L· Π '


          b;e
                       r,( 1 - F,) + jxF[ + yF" - [ri(l - F) + F,]
                                         σ2
                + ci                                       =0
                       r,.G,-AG;-yG;' + G,
                                              σ2
                          Fe_?"
                                    /IF' + y F" - F
                                                      σ2
                             + Ci   nGi - jxG'i -—G" + Gi           = 0.



We see that both F, and G, have no term Φ(·)· As q is linear in y, we have
q" = 0 (where q' = qy and q = qt). We thus have, for F,

                                       σ2 2'
          ®[q(.y,<p,t)\ μφ + γψ

                                       Γ           σ2           2
                                                                             =    0.
                   +          <p,                     o]            A?'               +   y    [2
  So            the               roots                    for             F,     are      φχ
 We see that this is independe
 we picked, as r, is cancelled

                                       σ2 2 „
          ®[q(v, y, t)]       μτ + yr -/■«·
                                      Γ            a2           2
                                                                           = 0,
                   +         4>[q(v,                                y,            0]      M'   +

so the roots for Gi are yn = μ+ν^2+2tr2f| = -a + Ja2 + > 0 and yi2 =
-a-y/a2 + yri< 0. Simply plugging in the functional form of q results in the
term in square brackets in the second row vanishing.
   For the boundary condition, we have

          d(y, 0) = P_11 p = p,
          a, ^ D-i exP(Fi>) .exp(y6)
           d(yfc, t) = P la = a ,
                                    r — μ r — μ

which defines the remaining parameters of the solution.




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1484 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


  As a last step, we retranslate the system back i
 tions by premultiplying by Ρ and noting that F(
 the symmetry of the <p's, and by rewriting it i

A.1.3. Equity

   Proof of Proposition 2: Equity has the following ODE where


             rE = exp(y) - (1 - tt)c + μΕ' + ~E" + j[DH{y, T) - p].
The term in square brackets is the cash flow term that arises out of rollover
of debt (while keeping coupon, principal, and maturity stationary), a term first
pointed out by LT96. We will establish the (closed-form) solution in several
steps.
   First, the homogeneous solutions to the ODE are M(y) = emy and U(y) =
eV2y, where

             σ2 2
             -η2 + μτη-Γ = 0

so that


                      -μ ± y/μ2 + 2a2r
             rji/2 = — = -α±χ/α2 +

and η! > 1 > 0 > η2 by μ < r.
   Next, let us establish the Wronskian

             Wr(s) = M(s)U'(s) — M'(s)U(s)

                      = ~(i?i - Vi)exp{(Vi + Vz)s}
                      = —Δη · M(s)U(s).

Then, by the variation of coefficient solutions to linear ODEs, a technique
described in most textbooks on differential equations, we have for an ODE

                           (72

            rg = ϊ-g' + yg" + part(s)

the following particular solution gp:

                / ιj\ 2 [' M(s)U(x)-M(x)U(s)
             gP(x\l)
                 σ- Jx
                       = — / part(s)
                              Wr(s)
                                     ds

                            2 fl „            „
                                      „ —„gVlXg-VtS
                                 g~V2SeV2*

                        = ~ij part(i)-Δηr- ds,



           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1485


             '/.in 2 f' w M{S)U\X)-M\X)U{S) ,
            gp(x\l)
                & J X
                      = — part(s)
                            Wr(s)
                                  ds

                       2 f' +,,V2M(s)U(x)-^M(x)U(s
                       — /
                     = σ2   part(s) —— ds,
                          Jx Wr(s)
              »/ ,,n 2 [' ./ ,rl\M{s)U{x)-r]\
            S,(*|/) = -2jx part(,) ^ ds
                           2
                               part(x)


for an arbitrary limit I e(yb,oo).
  Second, as the debt term DH is bounded, to impose the condition that equity
does not grow orders of magnitude faster than the unlevered value of the firm
F(y) = we need lim,,-»«, \ y^\ < oo. Let us write the solution as


           E(y) = kEU(y) + kEMM{y) + V(y) + kE0

                         [' 2 Μ (s)U (y) — Μ (y)U (s)
                      + / — part(s) —— ds,
                       Jy σ2 Wr(s)

where we incorporated all constant terms of the O
kE and part(s) is thus just composed of cumulative
form Φ[—aa ■ y + bb] where aa > 0. Let us gather
get



           E(y) = U(y)
                               4+1 Lpart Λ
                                             2 , , U(s)                                Ε
                                                                       Η r + k0 .
                      + M(y) \ kM- I —part(s)^-^ds
                                            r-μ


First, let us note that the integrals all converge, as Φ [—a
faster than any function ecst y for any constant est. Second,
ary condition of lim,. >oc \ y^\ < oo, we note that lim,-»«
term in the above equation converges for any choice of
ond term contains M(y), which explodes to infinity fast
We thus need to pick


                         f°° 2
            m)=-i Ji-2Pan^^-/s
                     σ2




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1486 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 as a necessary condition to have the term stay b
 we see that the term in question becomes

                                  Γ1
           M(y)        Κ μ (I) ~ [ part (A) ^S\ ds
                                  Jy σ2 Wr(s)
                                r°° 2 U(s)
                  = -M(y)J -part (s)—ds
 and we now show that this term converges to 0 as
get

                                Γ 2
            lim -M(y) I — part(s) ^(S\ ds
            y-*<x> JyJy σλ Wr(s)
                                Γ 2 U(s)
                          - / lartiAl
                              — part(^) TI/ - - ds
               - lim Jy σ                       Wr(s) "0';
                   y->                  1
                                       oo       ur\r.
                                                1 (J

                                         M(y)

                        — part(y)
                                 2 w \ UW
               (L'Hopitai),. σ2 Wr(y) n
                   - hm = U,
                    y->oo M'(y)
                                       myi:T2

and again, we see that since U(y), Wr(y), M{y), M'(y) are all of exponen
tial form and part(y) is of cumulative normal form, this term converges to
zero rapidly, and the solution to E(y) is verified. Let us take the arbitrary
limit / -»· oo and define gp(x) = gp(x\oo). We note that the complement of
the integrals (i.e., ds) vanishes, so that lim,^^ KM(l) = 0. We see that
gp(x) and g'p(x) (and so forth) consist of a finite sum of integrals of the form
     ecs, s<b[q(s, ρ, T)] ds where est is a constant.
   Third, let us briefly establish two auxiliary results. First, let us note that, for
aa > 0, we have

                  λ oo p—aax+bb
             aa I 4>(-aa-s + bb)ds= Ι φ(y)
                  J      X       J     —00


  by           simple                           change                     of            variabl

             ecst               xφ       (      —aa          ■       χ       +      bb)
                   1
                          exp    — J\(—aa ■ x + bb)2 — 2est ■ x]




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1487

                       1                                                          CSt \ ,,2 , estX
                                     exp                     -αα · χ + bb Η ) + bb — [bb A
                   V2^                                                             aa)       \     aa

                                                   ,, cst\
            =
                                     aa ■ x + bb A < ,(c«/(ee))(«>+(l/2)(cjt/(ee)))
                                                              aa )

by a simple completion of the square. Now, we can solve the integral i
tion via integration by parts:



        Γ       ecst s<$>[—aa ■ s + bb] ds



            = Φ [-aa s + bb]
                      est

                             1
                  A
                           est                 I
                                      aa ■ / ecsts(j)(—aa ■ s + bb)ds


            = Φ [—aa ■ χ + bb]
                           est

                                 1         f°° ( cst\ '
                  A                      α φ ( — aa ■e s           A )/2)
                                                           + bb(bb+(1
                                                        (est/(aa))     ds (es
                           est           . Jx V aa) .

            = Φ [—aa ■ χ + bb]
                           est

                                                                        est
                      + —Φ                 —aa ■ x + bb A                     g(cst/(aa))(bb+(l/2)(cst/(aa)))
                            est                                         aa



where we again used the fact that the cumulative normal vanis
any exponential function explodes. We also need


        ί       Φ [—aa ■ s + bb]ds


            - sΦ[—aa ■ s + bb]
                                                                        •I
                                                                 + aa φ(— aa -s + bb)ds

            = —χΦ[—aa ■ χ + bb]

                      + — \φ{-αα ■ x + bb) 4-bb ■ Φ [-aa ■ x + bb]}
                                           aa1                                             '


                                     =                                  —                          Γ(-α
                                      aaL                                                J

     which                                                                                                      is
            1                                               β(γ~γΐ




      This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                       All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1488 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


integrals


                IL ε^'Φ[φ,Ρ,,)}
                    2 1
                             em*e-ybP
                    σ —Δη                     /oo β(ρ-1ί2)ίΦ[<7(ί, ρ, θ] ds
                    2 1
                             eV2*e~ybP
                    σ —Δη

                    χ ρ[-β("-"2)φ[9(χ,
                        - η2
                                       ρ, 0]

                    + Φ[(?(Χ, η2, ί)]β(ρ"1?2)ίΛ_(1/2)[(ι?+β) (ρ+β)

                1 u _ fclp+Φ
                 est
 Here, we used σ^Γ'  σ\/Γ= (ρ - η2), αα = -±
 σχ/ί — g(x, η, ί), and the fact that
                                          1
              (P-1?)(-)       P + fl- r?)

                                      1         1      1      1      '
                = (p-i?)(~)
                                          2p+20+2"                                   +    2'!

                = ^[(Ji + tJ)2-(P + «)2].
where we note that the last term is independent of whether we pick the larger
or smaller root, as both η and all possible ρ are centered around —a. Lastly,
we note that | /x°° β^^Φ^Ο, ρ, ^ has the same form of solution
only with η1 replacing η2. Define
                                   /»OO




             H(x, ρ,η,Τ) = J β(ρ~η)ίΦ[q(s,p,T)]ds
                                      1

                                    CSf        [««·*<%(*, ρ,Γ)]

                                  - ecs< ^ exp             -C5f( ρ + α - -est) σ2Γ


                                   χ Φ[<7(χ, ρ, Γ) + est · σ\/Γ]


                                  —L [β*-*»φ[9(χ,ρ,Τ)]
                                  η—ρ


                                  - ^-τ,)^β(1/2)[(η+Η)2-(ρ+α)2,σ2:ΓΦ[^(χ, η, Γ)]}




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
            ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1489

if ρ φ η, and define



                               /OO       ΛΟΟ = J Φ [q(s,p,T)\ds
                                β<·ρ-ν»φ [q(s,p,T)]ds

                            = aVf[q(s, ρ, Γ)Φ[<7(5, ρ, Γ)] + <t)(q(s, ρ, Τ))]

for ρ = η. Note that

         H(yb, ρ, η, Τ)
                 e(p-v)yb
                            |φ[ (ρ + a)aVf]
                  η-ρ

                     _ β(1/2)[(η+«)2-(ρ+α)2]σ2Γφ|-_(τ? + β)σν

                  aVT[-{p + ά)σ\[Ύ ■ Φ[-(ρ + a)aVT]
                     + </>(-(ρ + a)aVT)\, P = V
The solution to the particular part for F then is

            , * 2 [°° Μ(s)U(x)-Μ(x)U(s)
          gp(x) = 2 / uF~i~\ ds
              σ2 Jx Wr(s)
                               2
                      1 2
                                               Jf(x, <p„ η2, Γ)
                     -Δη σ2   ί=1




         *>u) = Tjf°°F(,>^(')g(yW') Λ
                       1 2 2
                               i=1




and the solution to the particular part for G; is

              , , 2 f00 Μ(s)U(x)-Μ(x)U(s)
         go Αχ) = 2 / GAS) w~r\ ds
          ' σ2 Λ
                        1 2 2
                                                          γμ, η2, Ό
                     —Δη σ2i= 1'

                     - emxe~y'iybH(x, Ύμ, ηΐ5 Γ)},




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
1490 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


          r / \ 2 C°°„,.V2M(s)U{x)-t)xM{x)U{s)
           gcjW-tl Gj(s) —
                       1 2 2
                                                 7jiy" η (χ, Jji, Ύ]2,Τ)
                     —Δη σ2 '
                       ' 1=1



                      - r}\emxe~y>'ybH(x, γμ, ηι, Γ

 Plugging in χ = yb, and noting that
 important observation that


          evy»e mH(yb, ρ, η, Τ) = —-—
                                         η -ρ

                                                (1/2)[(7j+a)2-(p+fl)2]f2
                                         — e'
                                                                σ2ΓΦ[-(η + α)σνΤ]}
is independent of yb. We thus conclude that for any particular part, gp{yb), of
the form given above, and its derivative g'p{yb) are independent of yb besides
C(yb) containing eyb. Also note that for ρ = {φι, φ2}, we have

        g(l/2)[(r)+a)2-((p+a)2]CT2r _ ßrT


and for ρ = {γ(1, yl2\ we have

        g(l/2)[(77+a)2-(yji+a)2]a2T _ gir-rpT


 Total equity is now easily written out to be


        E(y) = k*e*<y-»> + + gF(y)
                                   r μ


                = k*e^y-yb) + + kE0
                                   Γ-μ


                           · P[- exp(—RT)kpgF(y) + gG(y)k£],

where we scaled the constants kE by e Wb so that kf = kE
term kE is


         kE = - -(1 - tt)c + · P[k£ + exp(—RT)kF - ρ]
          0 r

The constant Κ is derived by setting

        0 = E{yb)
                        eyb                     1     -
              =            k2+                          —~                     +     kE




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1491

                                      / eyi>
                                \ / _ . bE
                            fcfOfc)
                                Kr μ
                                     = - ( 1"^0


                                   + ■ P[- exp(—RT)kpgF(yb) + goOfc)k£|^.
The term in brackets only features linear combinations of constants indepen
   dent                      of                yb.               Q.E.D.

  A.           1.4.             Optimal                               Default

     Proof                          of             Proposition
  Plugging                                 k%(yb)                           into           the
  8h           =        eyb            in          closed                    form:

           0 = E'(yb)

               = k%(yb)n2 + · P[exp(-RT)k°g'F(yb) + gG0>fc)kg]


               = i?2 (j~i + k° + ' P[- exP(-RT)k?^(yfc) + go(Ti))kG]^
                            eyb       1        -
                      +       +          ·         P[exp(-RT)k
                      r — μ 1
                      eyb
                             τ?2 - 1 + · P{T72gG(yi) -- mko
                                                        g'G(yfc)}ai
                   r-μ



                 + jS ■ P[exp(-RT)k^{i72gF(yi) - g^Oi,)}

                 + {VlgoW - g'G<Jfc)}(k? - «ο)],

which yields

           8b = eyb

                                  γ                   -1-1
                = (r-μ)         τ?2                   - 1 +                            ·   P{η


                            -τ?2^ο                               +          ·          Pexp


                        +       ■              P{Tj2go(jfc)

  where                   we note that the
   We                  can simplify  furth




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1492 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 be written as


            V2gF(yb) - g'F(yb)
                     2 r
                             \ M(s)U(yb) -M(yb)U(s)
                             F(S) w   7 Τ ds
                 172 σ2 L          Wr{yb)

                             ° ^V2M(s)U(yb)-^M(yb)U(s) A
                    (J ^/
                    u Jyi    yh Wr(yb) S
                 2 f°° t?t \ ~ V2)M(yb)U(s)
               = — / TO u/ , , ^
                 σ·2 Jyb Wr(yb)
                    2 2
                       i=1



We thus established a closed form, albeit quite complex, for the optimal yb.
  The limit lim^oo δ6 can be easily derived by noting that the normal distri
butions converge either to 0 or 1, so the only difficulty remaining is the term
βα/2)Κηι+α)2-(,φί+α)2]σ2τ_ pet us establish a series of results.
   First, we note that in addition to e(V2Mm+°)2-<.>Pi+a)2]a2T _ erHr^ we ^ave

           β(1/2)[(771+β)2-(γ;ι·+α)2]σ2Γ _ g(rH-rj)T


and since we established that η > rH, we note that this term is converging to
zero.

   Second, we note that


            lim φ[-(τ?ι + «)σ^
           T-too C


                 "0" m-(m + a)aVT])'
              - TT^r. — hm
                 "0" oo (e~rHT)'
                  (η ι + α)σ
              = lim =-exp                            + α)2σ2Τ + rHT
                        2rHVf
                 (77 ι + α)σ                    Μ2
              = hm -=-exp
                        2rHVf                   2^+r"~r"
                       (17 ι+α)σ μ2
              = lim ==-exp                ——T          = 0,
                   2rHVT                   2σ2


where we used the fact that (ηχ +a)2 = μ'+2fr". Thus, all terms involving func
tions g vanish and no complication arises from premultiplying by m — j, and




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1493

we are left with

                    Sb -Viko(T) 772(1 ~tt)c
             lim = lim Vb = lim — = —,
           r->oo r — μ τ-*oo r->oo 772 — 1 172—1

where Vb = which is the same result as in Leland (1994) once we iden
tify (in Leland's notation) χ = —η2, so that limr^oo Vb = (1~^/r)jr. In the infi
nite maturity limit, the equity holders care about the illiquidify they impose on
bondholders via the valuation spread between Η and L only at the beginning
when issuing bonds, but since there is no rollover, their default decision is not
affected by bond market illiquidify for a given level of aggregate face value and
coupon.
  Next, let us investigate Τ ->■ 0, which essentially renders the secondary bond
market completely liquid. But of course there is a large effect of Τ -»· 0 on the
bankruptcy decision of the equity holders. Using EHopital's rule, we need to
investigate


           1ΐπι-[772^(δί,)-^(δ6)].

We see that two terms that exactly give 77, - ρ explode at the rate -L·, so that,
in the limit, we have


            lim =
           τ-* 0 r — μ aH

If a = aH = aL, we are back to the LT96 solution of Vb = Q.E.D.


                                    A.2. Firm Valuation

  We derive the initial firm valuation as a function of Τ. Following LT96, we
assume that, at time 0, the firm issues new bonds with maturities uniformly
distributed τ e [0, Γ] on the primary market, which guarantees that the firm is
always at its stationary debt maturing structure. Thus the levered initial firm
value 7Το(δο, Τ; 8b) is the sum of equity valuation plus how much money has
been raised by the initial bond issuance:46

(A.l) ΓΙο(δο, T\ 8b) = E(80; 5b)


                                  + (1-4/ S · ϋ(δ0, τ; 8b)d.T

  46The reader should note that we have one unit measure of bonds, whereas LT96 expanded
the measure of bonds according to maturity while keeping overall face-value constant.




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1494 Ζ. HE AND K. MILBRADT


                                            = E(8 o)

                                                + (1 — k)S
                                                                      + ^A_1(l — PG(S0, T)P_1
                                                — exp(—ΑΓ)[1 — F(S0, T)])kj

                                                + PJ(S0,DP-Ikg


 where 3(8, T) = [/l(Ä0'r) ^ Γ)], I = [J °], and


                Jj(8, T) =
                                      (yv + a)aVT
                                        2



                                        Σ(-1)ί(£)7"<%(δ' Γ)^(δ' Γ)·
                                  Χ




                         Α.3. Bid-Ask Spread Comparative Statics Proofs

    Let us split up the proof of Proposition 4 into parts. Let us first establish a
preliminary result.

   Lemma 3: The valuation wedge Π can be represented as

                                        rTATb
               Π(8, τ) = Ε              / e'hsxds + e~'n{™b)TI(8TMb, τ Λ Tb)
                                       Jo


                                                       Vb(aH - aL) - *
                             = * +E[e_?1<TATf,)l{T>Ti))]
                                 Τ\                                                       η



                                  + E[e-?l(TAT')llT<Tft)](o-^.
   Proof: Taking the difference between the PDE of DH and DL, we see that
surplus follows the following linear PDE:

                                  „ „ δΠ δΠ σ2δ2 δ2Π
                (r + ζ + λ/3) Π — χ — 1- μδ ■ — Η ———,
                            ν          '    δτ           δδ           2        δδ2


  which                                again                       is           in        the   form   o
   tions                               Π           (δ,                0)              =   0   and   TI(
  Then,                               using                       the                 Feynman-Kac
 the result stated in the lemma. Q.E.D.




             This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                              All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                 ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1495

A.3.1. Sufficient Conditions for όδΠ < 0 and dsA < 0

   Proof of Proposition 4—Part 1: Simple inspection reveals that
<?8E[e-h(^>1(T>Tft)] = <?gE[e~flM{T>Ti))] < 0 and that <?δΕ[^<^>1{τ<Τί)] =
e"hT<?gP[T < Tb] > 0,47 so that a sufficient condition for Ils < 0 is given by


               Vb(aH - aL) - * >0 <=> Vb(aH -aL) >
                                     η                                           η



To show that 77s < 0 implies d, < 0, note that As = 2(1 -^dh^sdl-dh) _ Ifwe
can show that dsDH > 0, then we have

            dbDf{ ■ Di — dbDi ■ Dfj < dsDfj · Du — dbDb ■ Du — dbII ■ Du < 0,

where the last inequality uses the fact that Πδ < 0 and DH > 0. Using the
Feynman-Kac formula to represent DH, treating Π (δ, τ) as an exogenous
function entering the flow payoff, we can write

                               ~ pTATb
            Dh(8, t) = E          / e'rs[c- £J7(S, s)] ds
                               Jo

                             + e r(™b)DH(STATb,T Arb)p

                                  Λ Τ ATb

                         = E
                                 / e~rsc ■ ds + e-r<TATf,)(l{Tb<T)aHVb + 1 [Tb>T]p)
                                Jo

                                                           e-r( τλτ;,)
                             + ξΠ(δΤΑη, Τ Λ Tb)

                                            TATb


                               -4ί                 e~rsIJ(8, s) ds


                                           JTATbτJ Arb) ds
                             + [ e rsΠ(8TATb,
                                  T/
                                JfTATb


                                     TATb


                           =il              e rsc ■ ds



                             _|_ g-r(TATb)               otuVb + —n(8b, Tb)          + 1{t b>T)P
                                              ^1(T4<T                    r




   47These statements can be easily checked via the following steps: fix a probability path ω (that
essentially fixes the Brownian shocks). Then suppose, given ω, we shift δ0 to δ'0 > δ0. It is now
clear that r'b > rh. As this holds for any path ω, the result follows taking expectations over all
possible paths.




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1496 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT



                            -ξΕ
                                   if e rsn(8,s)ds
                                   Jο


                        = -+E[e~^liT>Tb)]oiHVb + -Vb{aH
                                                 r
                                                        -aL)~
                                                        r




                            + E[e-^>llT<Ti)](p-^
                              ξΕ
                                    f
                                   .Jo
                                         e rsII(8, s)ds


Here, we defined Π(δ, s) post default as the constant of Il(8b,s) =
Vb(aH — aL) or post maturity as the constant of Π(8, τ) = 0. Next, note that
we have


                             =dsE[e~r^llT>Tb)] + dsE[e-r(TAT»%<Tb)] < 0.

This is because a higher initial 8, path by path, will increase the hitting
time τ λ Tb, lowering the e~r(-™b) path by path. As already argued,
we have dsE[e~riirMb)liT<Tb)] = e~'lTdsP[T < rb] > 0. Define a(8, τ) ξ
—d bE[e~r(TATb)l[r>Tb]] > 0. Thus, we have the following inequality:

            0 < <?gE[e_r(TATi')l{T<Ti))] < -dsE[e'r^T»\T>Tb)] = a(8, τ).

Since ρ — -r < 0 by assumption, then

                                                              c     ξ
           d&DH{8,T) = -ds E[e-r(TMb)l{T>Tb)]--aHVb
                                              r   r
                                                    Vb(aH-aL)


                                         +                          ^E[e
                          > a(8, τ)      - - aHVb - -Vb(.0LH - aL) + a(8, τ)
                                          r         r                                   H)
                          = α(δ, τ)           Ρ                ~               aHV
                                                          r



which is positive if the constant inside the bracket is positive. Q.E.D.

A.3.2. Sufficient Conditions for ότΠ > 0

  Proof of Proposition 4—Part 2: Let us make two observations:


           0TE[e~'ri(TATb)] < 0,

            JTE[e-~r^Mb%T>Tb]\=dTE[e-^l{T>Tb}] > 0.




          This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                           All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
            ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1497

Then, rewrite

                                                                     *"
        ότΠ(δ, τ) = dTE[e-'r^llT>Tb}]             Vb(aH - aL) -


                         - dTE[e-f^l[T<Tb)]^

                       = [Vb{aH - aL)]
                         - dTE\e-'riiTATb)]^·
                                  L Ο

                       > dTE[e-^T^llT>Tbi][Vb(aH

 which is positive if aH > aL. Unfort
 not easily established. From Δ = 2
 ficient condition in DH < 0. But w
 have Dh(S, 0) = DH(8, Τ) = ρ by defin
 Dh(δ, 0) φ 0, we know that DH(8, τ)
this sufficient condition does not hold for all τ. Q.E.D.

A.3.3. Sufficient Conditions for Π > 0


  Proof of Proposition 4—Part 3: Let us rewrite Π(δ,τ) = (1 -
E[e~?l(TATf,)])4 + E[e""ri(TATi,)l(T>Ti))]U,(a// — aL). We see that this is always posi
tive as long as aH > aL because τ a rb > 0 and f > 0. Q.E.D.


                 A.4. Alternative Modeling of Liquidity Shocks

   In the main text, we model the consequence of liquidity shocks as a positive
holding cost. In the working paper version (He and Milbradt (2013)), we mod
eled liquidity shocks as rise in the discount rate r above the risk-free rate r,
which captures the idea of "urgency to sell." More specifically, normal Η in
vestors discount future cash flows by r, while L investors who have been hit by
liquidity shocks discount future cash flows by r = r+ρ with ρ > 0. We show that
this modeling is consistent with the assumption in the main model with holding
cost χ = xcc + xpp, where yc > 0 and χρ > 0. For expositional purposes, set
the benchmark discount rate r = 0, and assume that there is no default.
  In general, the holding cost χ should be interpreted as the difference be
tween the efficient holding value without liquidity shocks, and the inefficient
holding value of impatient L investors (who remain in L state always). To see
this, imagine that we are in the model with holding costs. Suppose that there
is no secondary market trading, which makes this point stark. The valuation




       This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                        All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1498 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 difference then is proportional to holding cost


                   / cdt + p- / cdt + p- (xcc + χρ
                   Jo           Uo          Jo
                 Efficient valuation L-type valuation

                    = Txc-c + TxP-p.
 Now we turn to the model of impatient investors. The valuation differen
which can be interpreted as holding cost, is


                  f cdt + p— f e p'cdt + e pTρ
                  Jo LA
                 Efficient valuation L-type valuation



                   = f (1 — e~pl) dt ■ c + (1 - e~pT) · p.
                      Jo


One can easily check that this term is increasing in coupon c, with a positive
coefficient of



                   Jo e+—+-^>0.
                  fT(l-e-«)d,= Ρ
    Similarly,                                                the                  coeffi


                           A.5.                  Micro-Founde
    Recall that   the  trans
   for  the  purpose     of t
   by  £hl  ■  To  embed    t
   to introduce     a recove
   would   get a  degenera
   note  that  the   model   i
   but  required    a more
   introduce   types    LO  a
   LI and  HI  as  L- and   /
    Suppose   that   there   i
   Pm  +  Pm   +  Plo  +  Plu
    type-only                                                       distribut
    type-only                                                  dynamics
    Ph = ξ LH                                                  PL - ξπιΡΗ


                      Ph«)           =      τ
                       SHL -Τ SLH L bHL + SL// .
                                                                                          ξΐ"μ
                           = μ% + β-^+^),[μΗ(0)-μ^\,




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
               ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1499


where μΗ(0) is the exogenous initial state and μ^ = lim,_>oc μΗ(ί) = i
the steady state. We note that μ# (i) = (£hl + — μη(0)], which
implies that μΗ(ί) is monotonically increasing in time if and only if μ„ > μΗ(0)
(and vice versa), that is, if the initial value is below the steady state value.
  To ensure Assumption 1 that the secondary market is a seller's market, that is,
there is always a larger flow of potential buyers contacting the dealers than the
flow of potential sellers, we need μΗο(ί) > μη(ί), Vi e (0, oo). Let us rewrite
μ no as follows:

           μΗο = μ — μΗΐ — μ-Lo - μη = μ — (1 — μη) — μι = μ# — 1 + μη,

where we used the fact that μL\ + μΗ\ = 1 as the measure of outstanding bonds
is always 1. Hence,

           μΗθ(0 > μη(ί), Vi € (0, oo) «=Φ· μ//(ί)>1,Υί€(0,οο).

Thus, the necessary and sufficient condition for the market to always be a
seller's market is given by

           minf/i/AO),^} > 1.

  In the special case in which μ,/(0) > μ)), this condition simplifies to

             ss = ξ lh μ
             H £hl + £lh
Thus, we need a sufficiently high recovery times total mass of agents, ξυιμ, to
have a surplus of potential buyers in the model. We note that although this con
dition is very simple, the actual functions of μΗο(ί) and μ[Λ(ί) are complicated
non-stationary functions of t that require the solution to the full cross-sectional
distribution across (t, τ).
  The pricing of debt and equity changes only in so far as that the effective
recovery rate in the pricing equations is now £^ctlve ξ (λ/3 + ξ,.Η) instead of
λβ alone. Our main model can be understood as having an almost negligible
recovery intensity %hH and a very large total mass μ that satisfies the sufficient
conditions above.
  Similarly, we can also establish conditions for the post-default market to be
a seller's market as assumed in the main text. By the same equation, we have

           /%o= μ — μ/η — i1lo ~ = μ — (ι— μ^) ~ μ?. — μ?/ — ι + μ0η,

so that μ0Η(ί) > μ^(0 -Φ=> μ0Η(ί) > 1. As we have a different shock intensity
Zhl > £hl, we see that

                      ss ,b ,
           μΗ(ί) = μ® + β-^+*»>Κ'-ν[μΗ(η) - μ?],




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1500 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


                         default time and μ^
 where rb is the random £hl+*lh
 condition can thus be written as να\η{μΗ{τΑ, μ
 have


            πιίη{μ//(0),μ))·/'} > 1

 as the sufficient condition for pbH0(t) > pbL1(t)
 μ)), then the condition becomes

                w >L
           %HL +


                     A.6. Par Bonds, Cash Flows, and Coupons
  In some of our graphs, we show credit spreads and bid-ask spreads for par
bonds. To keep the bond at par at different cash flow levels (and thus different
quasi-market leverage levels), we have to adjust the coupon c. Formally, for
par bonds we have DH{8, c) = p. Differentiating, we have

           dsD/i(8, c) + dcDH(8, c)c'(S) = 0

and we thus have c'(8) = — Next, let us differentiate QL = p+£{S — along
the par-ray (δ, c(8)) to see that



                   lit = ■(,+βϋ,#1™c)+" c)c,(8)]·
If DH is increasing in 8 and increasing in c, then c'(8) < 0. Furthermore, if Ε
is increasing in 8 and decreasing in c, then we see that QL is monotonically
decreasing in δ. The solid line in Figures 3 and 4 traces out QL along the
par-ray (δ, c(8)). It is important to note that different initial δ imply different
coupons values c (and possibly different holding costs χ) and thus result in
different default boundaries.



           A.7. An Expanded Secondary Market Modeling With Richer
                            Post-Default Market

  We present a richer post-default market in this section. The main idea is that
the market itself does not have to be shocked in its fundamentals, but rather
that some investor-specific shocks arise. In a nutshell, the marginal buyer of
the bond pre-default is sidelined in default, and outside buyers step in to buy
the bonds. As these outside buyers are not in large supply, there is a shift from
a seller's to a buyer's market, which shifts the surplus from trade away from the
(common) sellers to the (specialized) buyers.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
             ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1501


  We assume that there are two classes of H-type investors who are ready
to buy bonds from dealers, and they differ in how default affects their pref
erence/ability of investing in corporate bonds. More specifically, one class of
investors is sensitive to the default event. They have a liquidity shock intensity
of ξ before default; after default, their liquidity shock intensity is ξ0 > ξ to pos
sibly reflect the fact that they might not be allowed to hold defaulted bonds.48
Additionally, they cannot purchase defaulted bonds. Without risk of confusion,
we keep referring to these investors as //-types. In contrast, there is another
class of investors, denoted by S (for Specialists), who have a constant liquidity
shock intensity ξ independent of whether the bond has defaulted or not, and
are able to buy bonds pre- and post-default. For simplicity, we assume that af
ter purchasing the bond, if a liquidity shock hits either an Η or S investor, both
transition to the same L-type.
  The following assumption replaces Assumption 1 in the main text.

   Assumption 2: Before default, the flow of L-type sellers in contact with dealers
is greater than the flow of S-type buyers in contact with dealers, but smaller than
the flow ofH-type buyers in contact with dealers, a situation we denote by the term
seller's market. After default, Η-type investors withdraw from the buy side, and
the flow of L-type sellers in contact with dealers is smaller than the flow of S-type
buyers in contact with dealers, a situation we term a buyer's market.


  Note that an S investor's surplus is always weakly higher than an Η investor's
one. Under Assumption 2, however, in equilibrium the marginal buyer is an
H-type before the default, as there is an oversupply of H-type buyers and an
undersupply of 5-type buyers, whereas after default the marginal agent is an S
type. Interestingly, under that assumption, we show that the valuation of 5-type
investors does not affect the pre-default equilibrium outcome.
  The classes of Η and S represent different institutional buyers of corporate
bond in practice. The class of Η investors represents normal corporate bond
funds (say, money market funds, high yield bond funds, etc.) who can only
invest in bonds that have not defaulted yet, while the class of 5 investors repre
sents hedge funds that are specializing in buying defaulted bonds and waiting
for recovery. Our modeling of Η investors and S investors captures this impor
tant difference in the most stark way, and we make an assumption below about
the relative mass of Η investors to S investors to reflect the scarcity of hedge
funds who specialize in distressed securities. Moreover, the presence of S-type
investors before default will not change the pre-default equilibrium outcome,
as along as their measure is sufficiently small, so that the pre-default marginal
buyer remains the H-type investor.


  48As ξι, —► oo, this proxies for an aggregate event in which all of these investors are hit by a
shock at the exact moment of default. This would, however, be an undesirable assumption as it
would result in no valuation wedge between H- and L-types and thus would contradict the data.




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1502 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


  Again, we use "ft" to indicate the state of bank
 ket before default where there are always suffici
 supply from L-type sellers, buy orders drop abr
 creases. In other words, the post-default market i
   Denote the post-default debt valuation for Η
 where the index i € {0,1} indicates the investors'
 ation values are Dbf = Db" = 0 because H-type in
 bonds, and L-type investors exit after selling the
 denote their values by Dbs', where the index i e
the S investor. Dbs'° > 0 because S investors provi
thus earn weakly positive rents in equilibrium.
 The surplus generated from an L investor sellin
bond for a price Μ on the competitive inter-deal

           nbL = Mb — (DbL - DbL°) — Mb - DbL.

 Because the inter-dealer market is competitiv
 equilibrium inter-dealer market price Mb = DbL
 Mb > DbL so that llbL > 0, then other dealer-L-typ
 price Mb in the inter-dealer market to obtain a su
 The equilibrium bid price generically is given by
then implies

          Bb = DbL = Mb.

  As the buy side is made up of dealer-5-type pairs, define the surplus from
trade for an S-type as

          IJb = nb = (Dbl - Df) - M" > 0.

Following Nash-bargaining, the ask price at which 5-types (with a bargaining
power of ßs) buy from the dealer is given by

          Ab = Df + ßsnb.

Thus, a buyer's market is characterized by positive surplus from trade for buy
ers, and zero surplus from trade for sellers.
  We now solve for the equilibrium values in the secondary market for de
faulted bonds. Recall that the bankruptcy payout occurs with intensity Θ. Fur
ther assume that post-default holding costs are proportional the ultimate re
covery payout, Xjz~- We then have the following linear system:



(A.2) rDbH = 0 + ib(DbL - Db{) + θ(α-^~ - DbX




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
             ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1503



 (A.3) rBi—^ + O +
          rDbl = 0 + i(DbL - Dbi) + ,

          rDf = 0 + \s{Dbsl -A- Df) + 0(0 - Df).

On the right-hand side of (A.3), the first term is the holding cost Xyf^· T
second term captures the value increment in contacting the dealer successfu
but it is zero because L investors sell their bond always at their reservatio
price DbL. We solve the linear system for the values DbH and Db and for
proportional bid-ask price Ab ξ αι^(Α^+Βι>) "n the following proposition.

  PROPOSITION 5: Under Assumption 2, post default the debt valuations for
and L investors are

          ~DbH(8by         aH
(A.4)
           DbL{8b)_        aL_   r-μ

where

                   θα fbXt,
          aH -
                 r + θ (r + 0)(r + θ + fb)

and


          aL =
                  θα _ Xb
                 r+0 r + 0

The bid price is given by Bb = DbL, whereas the ask price is g
ßsHb, and the proportional bid-ask spread is given by

          A" = 2(«0(7· + 0 + ξ)[2(β$ - 1)AS - r - 0]
                 + x\fr + θ)[ξ — (ßs — 2)(r + 0)]

                 — 2As[2(r + 0) + f]{ßs — 1)])

                 /((2A5 + r + 0)(a0(r + 0 + ξ) - ßsX(r + 0) - γ£

  Note that the boundary conditions for DbH and DbL are in
secondary market in this formulation (or rather, are equivale
secondary market) as all the surplus accrues to the outsi
bid-ask spread, however, reflects the search-frictions presen
market. Thus, the market in itself does not have to become




        This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                         All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
    1504 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


   contact intensities, bargaining power, etc.), only
   for the pre-default marginal holders of the asset.
    Further, recall that, in the text, we defined th
    ery value as aLT = ^a. Plugging in, we see
   «£ = ollt — jfre· The values DbH, DbL serve as ou
   ing bond valuation functions before the firm def
 of


                      &H — &L = — > 0.
                                    r+0 + &

  Thus, a difference arises between the bid-ask just before default, given by

                      ,. ,,s , (1 - β) (α η ~ (*L)
                      lim Δ(δ, τ) =
                                           -[{l + ß)aH + {\-ß)aL\

                                                               2(β-1)χ(Γ+θ)
                                            2a6(r +θ+ξ„) + (β- 1)χ(χ +θ)~ 2χξ„

  and the bid-ask spread just after default, Ab. We thus can generate a jump in
  trading prices and in the bid-ask spread that is documented in empirical work.



                             A.8. Decomposition Results for Non-Par Bonds


                                                          TABLE III

   Default-Liquidity Decomposition for Investment and Speculative Grade Non-Par
                                         Bonds in Normal and Crisis Times3


                                             Investment Grade Speculative Grade
Non-Par Bonds                     Normal         Crisis         Change    Normal       Crisis          Change

                                                       Panel A: Data

Credit spread bps                   97             321 224                 348          1082            734
                                                                 (3.3x)                                     x)
                                                                                                       (3.1 χ)
Illiquidity                         1             1.5             0.5       1i           2                1
                                                                (1.5 x)                                (2x)
                                                    Panel B: Model
Credit spread bps                  100             332 232                 350          970             620
                                                                 (3.3x)                                (2.8x)
BA spread bps                       45            55               10       56          116              47
                                                                (1.2x)                                 (2.1x)

                                                                                                  (Continues)




                    This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                                     All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                        ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1505

                                               TABLE III—Continued


                                         Investment Grade Speculative Grade
Non-Par Bonds                 Normal          Crisis          Change            Normal            Crisis           Change

                                       Panel C: Model-Based Decomposition
Pure default                    44             210              166              223               681               457
                              (44%)          (63%)             (72%)            (64%)            (70%)             (74%)
Liq.-driven def.                 9              20               11               21                18               -3
                               (9%)           (6%)              (5%)             (6%)             (2%)            (-0.5%)
Pure liquidity                  31              31               0                31               31                 0
                              (31%)           (9%)             (0%)             (9%)              (3%)              (0%)
Def.-driven liq.                16              71               55               75               240               165
                              (16%)          (21%)             (24%)            (21%)            (25%)             (27%)
Total                           100            332              232               350              970               620
                              (100%)         (100%)           (100%)           (100%)           (100%)            (100%)

    a Baseline parameters are given in Table II, with a υ = 68.46% given in Section 4.1.3. The data in Panel A are
from Friewald, Jankowitsch, and Subrahmanyam (2012). Panel Β and Panel C give model-implied moments for non
par bonds, that is, credit spread and coupon spread do not coincide. To match normal time credit spreads, we adjust
the initial cash flow to deliver a credit spread of 100 bps and 350 bps for investment and speculative grade, respec
tively. Crisis is modeled as a negative cash flow shock of —50%, which is chosen to target the rise of credit spread of
investment grade bonds. Bonds are not at par in normal or in crisis times.




                                                       REFERENCES

Afonso, G., and R. Lagos (2011): "Trade Dynamics in the Market for Federal Fund
  Paper. [1447]
AMIHUD, Y., and H. Mendelson (1986): "Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread,
  Financial Economics, 17, 223-249. [1447]
Back, K., and S. Baruch (2004): "Information in Securities Markets: Kyle Meets G
  Milgrom," Econometrica, 72, 433-465. [1448]
Back, K., and K. Crotty (2013): "The Informational Role of Stock and Bond Volu
  ing Paper. [1448,1480]
Bao, J., J. PAN, and J. Wang (2011): "The Illiquidity of Corporate Bonds," Journa
  66, 911-946. [1444,1445,1455,1462,1472,1474]
Beber, Α., Μ. BRANDT, and K. Kavajecz (2009): "Flight-to-Quality or Flight-to-L
  idence From the Euro-Area Bond Market," Review of Financial Studies, 22, 92
 1474]
Bessembinder, H., W. Maxwell, and K. Venkataraman (2006): "Market Transparency, Liq
   uidity Externalities, and Institutional Trading Costs in Corporate Bonds," Journal of Financial
   Economics, 82, 251-288. [1470]
Bhamra, H. S., L.-A. Kuehn, and I. A. Strebulaev (2010): "The Levered Equity Risk Pre
  mium and Credit Spreads: A Unified Framework," Review of Financial Studies, 23, 645-703.
   [1467,1468]
Biais, B., and P.-O. Weill (2009): "Liquidity Shocks and Order Book Dynamics," Working Pa
  per. [1447]
Black, F., and J. C. Cox (1976): "Valuing Corporate Securities: Some Effects of Bond Indenture
  Provisions," Journal of Finance, 31, 351-367. [1446]




                   This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                                    All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1506 Ζ. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


 Chen, Η. (2010): "Macroeconomic Conditions and the Puz
    Structures," Journal of Finance, 65, 2171-2212. [1467,1468,1
 Chen, H., R. Cui, Z. He, and K. Milbradt (2013): "Liquidit
    Over the Business Cycle," Working Paper. [1478]
 Chen, L., D. Lesmond, and J. Wei (2007): "Corporate Yie
   Journal of Finance, 62, 119-149. [1472]
 Cheng, I., and K. Milbradt (2012): "The Hazards of Debt:
  Bailouts," Review of Financial Studies, 25 (4), 1070-1110. [1
 Choi, J., D. Hackbarth, and J. Zechner (2012): "Granularit
   Tests," Working Paper. [1449]
 Custodio, C., M. Ferreira, and L. Laureano (2013): "Why
  Term Debt Ί" Journal of Financial Economics, 108 (1), 182-2
 Diamond, D. W. (1993): "Seniority and Maturity of Debt Co
  nomics, 33, 341-368. [1447]
 Diamond, D. W, and Z. He (2013): "A Theory of Debt Matu
  Overhang," Journal of Finance, 69 (2), 719-762. [1447,1479]
 Dick-Nielsen, J. (2009): "Liquidity Biases in TRACE," Jou
  [1471]
Dick-Nielsen, J., P. Feldhütter, and D. Lando (2012): "Corporate Bond Liquidity Before
  and After the Onset of the Subprime Crisis," Journal of Financial Economics, 103, 471-492.
  [1444,1474,1475]
Duffie, D., and D. Lando (2001): "Term Structures of Credit Spreads With Incomplete Ac
  counting Information," Econometrica, 69, 633-664. [1447]
Duffie, D., N. Gärleanu, and L. H. Pedersen (2005): "Over-the-Counter Markets," Econo
  metrica, 73,1815-1847. [1444]
           (2007): "Valuation in Over-the-Counter Markets," Review of Financial Studies, 20,
  1865-1900. [1447,1450]
Edwards, Α., L. Harris, and M. Piwowar (2007): "Corporate Bond Market Transaction Costs
  and Transparency," Journal of Finance, 62,1421-1451. [1444]
Ericsson, J., AND O. Renault (2006): "Liquidity and Credit Risk," Journal of Finance, 61,
  2219-2250. [1446]
Fama, Ε., and K. R. French (1989): "Business Conditions and Expected Returns on Stocks and
  Bonds," Journal of Financial Economics, 25, 23—49. [1469]
          (1992): "The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns," Journal of Finance, 47,427-465.
  [1469]
           (1993): "Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds," Journal of Finan
  cial Economics, 33, 3-56. [1469]
Feldhütter, P. (2012): "The Same Bond at Different Prices: Identifying Search Frictions and
  Selling Pressures," Review of Financial Studies, 25,1155-1206. [1447,1448,1454,1464,1468,1480]
Friewald, N., R. Jankowitsch, and M. G. Subrahmanyam (2012): "Illiquidity or Credit De
  terioration: A Study of Liquidity in the US Corporate Bond Market During Financial Crises,"
  Journal of Financial Economics, 105 (1), 18-36. [1444,1446,1474-1477,1505]
Gilson, S., K. John, and L. Lang (1990): "Troubled Debt Restructurings: An Empirical Study
  of Private Reorganization of Firms in Default," Journal of Financial Economics, 27, 315-353.
  [1454]
Glosten, L. R., and P. R. Milgrom (1985): "Bid, Ask and Transaction Prices in a Specialist
  Market With Heterogeneously Informed Traders," Journal of Financial Economics, 14, 71-100.
  [1448,1480]
Green, R. C, B. Hollifield, and N. Schurhoff (2007a): "Dealer Intermediation and Price
  Behavior in the Aftermarket for New Bond Issues," Journal of Financial Economics, 86,
  643-682. [1444]




            This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                             All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
                 ENDOGENOUS LIQUIDITY AND DEFAULTABLE BONDS 1507

           (2007b): "Financial Intermediation and the Costs of Trading in an Opaque Market,"
  Review of Financial Studies, 20, 275-314. [1444]
Guerrieri, V., R. Shimer, and R. Wright (2010): "Adverse Selection in Competitive Search
 Equilibrium," Econometrica, 78, 1823-1862. [1448]
Harris, L., and M. Piwowar (2006): "Secondary Trading Costs in the Municipal Bond Market,"
  Journal of Finance, 61,1361-1397. [1444]
He, Z., and K. Milbradt (2013): "Endogenous Liquidity and Defaultable Bonds," Working
 Paper W18408, NBER. [1450,1479,1497]
        (2014): "Supplement to 'Endogenous Liquidity and Defaultable Bonds'," Econometrica
 Supplemental Material, 82, http://www.econometricsociety.org/ecta/supmat/11039_data_and_
 programs.zip. [1448]
He, Z., and W. Xiong (2012a): "Rollover Risk and Credit Risk," Journal of Finance, 67,391-430.
 [1447,1464-1466,1470,1479]
         (2012b): "Dynamic Debt Runs," Review of Financial Studies, 25 (2), 1799-1843. [1446]
Hong, G., and A. Warga (2000): "An Empirical Study of Bond Market Transactions," Financial
 Analysts Journal, 56, 32-46. [1444]
Huang, J.-Z., and M. Huang (2012): "How Much of the Corporate-Treasury Yield Spread Is
  Due to Credit Risk?" Review of Asset Pricing Studies, 2,153-202. [1467,1470,1471]
Ivashina, V., D. C. Smith, and B. Iverson (2013): "The Ownership and Trading of Debt Claims
  in Chapter 11 Restructurings," Working Paper. [1454]
Jankowitsch, R., F. Nagler, and M. G. Subrahmanyam (2013): "The Determinants of Re
  covery Rates in the US Corporate Bond Market," Working Paper. [1444,1445,1454,1455,1462,
 1469]
Kyle, A. S. (1985): "Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading," Econometrica, 53, 1315-1335.
  [1448]
Lagos, R., and G. Rocheteau (2007): "Search in Asset Markets: Market Structure, Liquidity,
  and Welfare," American Economic Review, 97,198-202. [1447]
          (2009): "Liquidity in Asset Markets With Search Frictions," Econometrica, 77, 403-426.
  [1447]
Lauermann, S., and A. Wolinsky (2011): "Search With Adverse Selection," Working Paper.
  [1448]
Leland, H. (1994): "Corporate Debt Value, Bond Covenants, and Optimal Capital Structure,"
  Journal of Finance, 49,1213-1252. [1446,1461,1465,1493]
           (1998): "Agency Costs, Risk Management, and Capital Structure," Journal of Finance,
  53,1213-1243. [1447,1479]
Leland, H., and Κ. B. Toft (1996): "Optimal Capital Structure, Endogenous Bankruptcy, and
  the Term Structure of Credit Spreads," Journal of Finance, 51, 987-1019. [1444]
Longstaff, F. Α., S. Mithal, and E. Neis (2005): "Corporate Yield Spreads: Default Risk or
  Liquidity? New Evidence From the Credit Swap Market," Journal of Finance, 60, 2213-2253.
  [1446,1473-1475]
Miller, Μ. H. (1977): "Debt and Taxes," Journal of Finance, 32, 261-275. [1467]
Schultz, P. (2001): "Corporate Bond Trading Costs: A Peek Behind the Curtain," Journal of
  Finance, 56, 677-698. [1444,1470]
Schwarz, Κ. (2010): "Mind the Gap: Disentangling Credit and Liquidity in Risk Spreads,"
  Working Paper. [1446,1474]
Segura, Α., and J. Suarez (2011): "Dynamic Maturity Transformation," Working Paper. [1479]
Suarez, G., E. SCHROTH, AND L. Taylor (2014): "Dynamic Debt Runs and Financial Fragility:
  Evidence From the 2007 ABCP Crisis," Journal of Financial Economics, 112 (4), 164-189.
  [1447]
Vayanos, D„ and P.-O. Weill (2008): "A Search-Based Theory of the On-the-Run Phe
  nomenon," Journal of Finance, 63,1361-1398. [1447]




           This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                            All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1508 Z. HE AND Κ. MILBRADT


WEILL, P.-O. (2007): "Leaning Against the Wind," Review o
[1447]


  Booth School of Business, University of Chicago, 5807 South Woodlawn Ave.,
Chicago, IL 60637, U.S.A., and NBER; zhiguo.he@chicagobooth.edu
                                                  and
  Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, 2001 Sheridan Rd.,
Evanston, IL 60208, U.S.Α., and NBER; milbradt@northwestern.edu.

           Manuscript received August, 2012; final revision received November, 2013.




         This content downloaded from 144.214.9.191 on Mon, 09 Mar 2020 05:14:37 UTC
                          All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
